
"We have come at last to this holiest of holy places. What was stolen from us long ago is ours once again."
Sword hilts jut from some trolls' bodies where wounds healed so fast that the weapons were trapped inside.


"Faith can quicken the stones themselves with life."
—Writings of Mikaeus

"Let go your grudges, or risk wandering the bogs forever in a murderous rage."
—Hildin, priest of Avacyn


"But no one heard the snake's gentle hiss for peace over the elephant's trumpeting of war."
—Afari, *Tales*
"What are ramparts, what are steeples, what are our machines worth in the teeth of this ceaseless hunger?"
—Magos Varnak

Philosophers speak of a place where myths wash like tides upon the shores of the real.
"Holy places are no longer sanctuary from death, and death is no longer sanctuary from anything."
—Thalia, Knight-Cathar


Ugin saw the gem that connected Bolas to his Meditation Realm as the key to his brother's downfall.

"What Barbarian secrets do they spy from their lofty perch?"
—General Varchild
The distinction of bearing the gods' banner is nothing compared to the glory of being closer to Nyx.
Snaking remnants of nature directed by a body of thought and progress, the oracles embody all that is Simic.
It was Daeron's bravery that brought him to Odunos. But it was the magic of Meletis that brought him home.
「たったひとつのシダの渦から、今まで読んだどんな本よりも深い洞察を得ました。」
—-クアンドリクスの学部長、キアン
"Slivers are evil and slivers are sly; And if you get eaten, then no one will cry."
—Mogg children's rhyme
"The Burnished Banner will show the Warlord that the Suwwardi Marches belong to the Fallaji!"
Before she is admitted to the host of Starnheim, a young valkyrie must learn a thousand tales of her ancestors.

". . . Our castle's strength
Will laugh a siege to scorn."
—William Shakespeare,
*Macbeth*

"Reel it in. No, wait! Throw it back!"
—Gertrude, deep-sea angler
"In memories, we can find our deepest reserves of strength."

Volcanic ash-winds batter it, climbing vines overwhelm it, dragonfire roasts it, and yet it still stands as a testament to a forgotten world.
"It's a fine way to travel, if you don't mind the smell."





"One need not know the specific details of a spell to suppress its effect. Simply rearrange the rules of the reality within which the spell operates."
—Imbraham, Quandrix dean
"Not too bright, but good enough for the job required—carrying and walking in a straight line."
—Bruse Tarl, Goma Fada nomad
A popular game among ogres is to see how many revolutions a head can make before it pops off.
May the worthy spend an eternity in Blessed Sleep. May the wicked find the peace of oblivion.
The more weapons a goblin breaks in battle, the more respected he becomes.


Elvish dawnhands test a relic's worthiness before collecting it for the safehold. If it can't stand up to a stiff breeze, it's left behind.


"The spirit of the devout is easily crushed by the loss of hope."
—Fallen angel
The feeble resistance of the flesh is over. Phyrexia spreads its shadow over all.
"These sorcerers always seem to have another surprise up their sleeves."
—Zur the Enchanter
"It's easy to get taken in by the spectacle, to enjoy a bit of naughty amusement. But make no mistake: the Cult of Rakdos is a danger."
—Tajic
"Auntie Grub had caught a goat, a bleating doe that still squirmed in her arms. At the same time, her warren decided to share with her a sensory greeting of hot tar . . . ."
—A tale of Auntie Grub


The divinity's patronage confers both wicked grace and graceful wickedness.
Thelon of Havenwood created thallids as a food source in times of darkness. Thallids did the same with saprolings.
They wait in darkened depths, laughing eagerly.

"We earn no medals and fight for no titles. Blood is proof of our victory."
—Lovisa Coldeyes
A verdant paradox of primal logic.
He knows the name of every elf born in the last four centuries. More importantly, they all know his.


Here the soratami wove their endless plots—graceful, artful, and deceitful, while the unwitting world moved below.
"Regards from Peema."
—Rishkar

Although the elves of Argoth always considered them a nuisance, the pixies made fine allies during the war against the machines.



"Those who stood in my path now lay behind me."
"An appropriately detailed model is indistinguishable from reality, and much easier to control."
"The war sent Kamigawa into turmoil. Here it was spring and there winter. For some, time stood still, while for others, moments flashed past like minnows in a pond."
—*Observations of the Kami War*

Gatha survived as long as he did by giving all Keld's predators exactly what they wanted.


She sticks to her chosen master closer than their own shadow.
Despite its fearsome stature, it is as elusive as a shadow, circling round to stalk those who presume to hunt it.

The hunters spent the evening celebrating their kill and the rest of the night running from it.
When the vaults are empty, everyone is rich.


"Each night as Master Dosan prays to the kami, the hate he receives in return withers his body a little more. Though the kami are slowly killing him, still he continues his prayers."
—Meditation journal of a young budoka
"There's no success like excess!"


She roams the border between wilderness and civilization, protecting those who need it most.
"I'd build an entire fortress of them if I could."
—Mzali, Lighthouse archmage

"This forest means more to the druids than their own kin. The loss of a tree is like the loss of a child."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight*

"I see a spark of pure rage. Soon that spark will spread from the depths of Kragma. Soon its fire will engulf the polis."
—Hira, street oracle
Within a mile of the woodland, you will feel her eyes upon you. Within its borders, you will feel her blade.
Ravnica's most ancient streets take on a life of their own. A few have decided to move to nicer neighborhoods.






Wildflowers here bloom not with the season but with the ebb and flow of magic.

Now etched only with the scars of phyresis.
Light as a feather. Sharp as an angel's wrath.
"The standard cure for leeches requires the application of burning embers. Alternative methods must be devised should an ember of sufficient size prove more harmful than the leech." —Vervamon the Elder
Not every tale ends in glory.

"Rise, my pretty thing. Why rot in the river when you can serve at my bidding?"
Dromoka dragons foster trust among their subjects, while the other clans must spend their time quelling rebellion.
"Take what solace you can in the knowledge that you will not be here to witness Zendikar's demise."
—Ob Nixilis



"Finally, a weapon the Boros can't confiscate!"
—Juri, proprietor of the Juri Revue





"There it was, clawing the ice as it chittered and clicked its teeth. We fled in horror before it unearthed its grisly meal."
—Aevar Borg, northern guide, journal entry


It's often mistaken for the coming dawn as it gallops across the horizon.
"I serve only justice. But through that duty, I serve all of Ravnica."


"I have attuned the staff to your screams so that only I may benefit from your pain."
—Volux, disciple of Nin


"This palace will be our fire-spit, and roasted prince our victory meal. Send in the torch-pigs!"
—Ghut Rak, Gruul guildmage
"From the first touch, I know exactly what the metal wants to be."






"The empire, long united, must divide, and long divided, must unite."
"Sure, today of all days, he asked to borrow my boots!"
—Darijo, Ivy Street ruffian


She protects the sacred groves from blight, drought, and the Unbeholden.
Golgari mold collects whispers, intelligence that is later harvested by Jarad and his high chancellors.
"Guilty as charged!"



Magic written across the sky falls like rain on thirsty ground, bringing forth wisdom in its season.

Her hand gently beckons, she whispers your name—but those who go with her are never the same.
The scrape of shovels and the tumble of cold dirt soon muffled their pleas.

Fire in the blood, fire in the belly.

"I headbutted a troll. And won."
Some angels protect the meek and innocent. Others seek out and smite evil wherever it lurks.




Some of the thallids that escaped into the fens of Urborg began emulating the Cabal's bloodsoaked rituals in their own peculiar way.
"I have an eternity to know the souls who are bound here, to behold their every facet. But moments from now they will be gagged and masked, and they shall be known by none other."
In a world of bright, cloudless skies, she is the dark storm on the horizon.
At a distance, we mistook the sound for a waterfall . . . .
"Bind me to thee, my soul to thine. I am your servant and your slave. Blood for blood, flesh for flesh, Leshrac, my lord."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
The power of the wild, concentrated in a single charge.
"It is folly to believe your precious inventions will endure. All things return to the soil."
—Nirav, Tirahar elder





"I suggest you take a closer look."
—Tidal visionary


"We encountered the Sentinels in the wastes, near no living thing. Their purpose was inscrutable."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry
The promise of anguish is payment enough for services rendered.
Enter and rejoice! The Conclave stands united, open to one and all.
As their roots soaked in a weak tea of bogwater and decay, the trees absorbed the essence of death into their living tissue.
"All peoples treasure a place where the weary traveler may drink in peace."
—Ajani Goldmane
Idle chatter beckons many an attentive ear.
Made to ward off the Grim Captain and silence the lure of undeath.
All they found in the hunter's camp were tiny paw prints and a lot of blood.

"Everything falls apart. But living things fall apart in the most fascinating ways."
—Mowagh the Gwyllion

Erigan cried out in pain as a hideous weakness settled into his bones.


"The glowstones shine and dinosaurs roar to the south. Business will be brisk tonight."
Using a spine to break a slave's back appeals to the Grixis sense of irony.

The present is a matter of perspective.

Some trees bear deadly fruit.
War begins with one red ember.

Being trapped between two forms of unlife is a fate worse than mere death.

"The fools thought me dead. But I built an empire inside my tomb."
—Kerrick, sleeper agent
"Today? That'll cost you extra."


"Until the world unites in vengeful fury and Phage is destroyed, I will not stay my hand."
—Akroma, angelic avenger
Jace discovered the leyline pattern needed to anchor Ulamog and Kozilek to reality, but it was Nissa who could trace it on her world.
"You have not died until I consent."
At first, vedalken observers thought blinkmoths naturally avoided certain places. Then they realized those places were frogmite feeding grounds.
"To bring her down we must be on all sides at once—leave one avenue open and we'll all be dead."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter
Nothing remained but a few drifting embers and the smell of smoldering hair.
"Stoop, pick, turn, toss. This is the way we mourn our loss."
—Scavenger dirge
Frozen in fear, the goblins stared upward at the circling hunter—and were promptly eaten by its diving mate.
A few weed-choked gourd patches are all that remain of the proud, thriving farms that once blanketed the province.
The spires of Ravnica are no different from the tall trees of other planes. The elves navigate and protect them just the same.
Those who only believe themselves infected with lycanthropy can be as dangerous as those who really are.
Within without.
"Strength, skill, rage—all have their limits, but patience can be infinite."



"I raised my bow, and the wolf stared at me. Under its gaze, my finger would not release the string."
—Aref the Hunter
The Auriok see the artificer as a conduit, beckoning new creations into the world.
You may break her shield, but you'll never break her spirit.
The locks on the cages of the damned are opened with keys of marrow, sinew, and blood.
"With one breath, the newborn angel took to the air . . . and the world sighed."
—*The Book of Serra*
As you sail past the imposing Seatower of Balduran, you realize that breaking your friend out of that prison will be much harder than you thought.

Its passage through history is marked by warped desires and insatiable greed.

The first satyr to wake after a revel must search for the site of the next one.
"Watch your head . . . and your back."
Izzet mages often acquire their magic reagents from dubious sources, so the potency of their spells is never predictable.



An unfinished body with unfinished business.

It was the perfect disguise—at least until its stomach started moaning.

Devotion, the second myth of reality: The faithful are most hurt by the objects of their faith.
Now vengeance is his sole purpose.
"Your debt is erased."
—Hilgur, Orzhov euthanist
"I headbutted a troll. And won."
Meddling mages chant so loudly that no one can get a spell in edgewise.
"If you don't have a destination in mind, the route is all that matters."
—Tamina, district guide

"Pain is a crude way to enforce obedience, but it is cheap and plentiful."
—Volrath




Where dragons once prevailed, their bones now sink.
He wants to watch Ravnica burn, one soul at a time.


More than one mage was driven insane by the sound of the Millstone relentlessly grinding away.
"I barely escaped with my life. At that number, they could take on Emrakul herself!"
—Samila, Murasa Expeditionary House
"We're family now, big guy."
Got a diving lesson
—Sultai expression meaning "was fed to the crocodiles"

The magical echoes of the Hurloon mountain range greatly increase the potency of spells based on song or speech.
"Should you fall in the wilds, lift your voice to the Sky Realm. The one who answers will be your salvation."
—Emeria's Creed

"The seas are no less imperiled than the dry lands. This fight is mine as much as it is yours."
—Kiora, to Gideon Jura





"The foot stone is connected to the ankle stone, the ankle stone is connected to the leg stone . . ."
—"Song of the Artificer"
"Our creations are more than mere things. They have life in them, little bits of ourselves."
—Saheeli Rai


Baby dragons can't figure out humans—if they didn't want to be killed, why were they made of meat and treasure?
"The Brazen Coalition is a firecannon pointed at our enemies. Goblins like him are the spark to its powder."
—Admiral Beckett Brass

The Consulate recruits its best pilots from the League of Aeronauts. Many go on to command entire fleets.

No mortal could atone for Ihsan's betrayal. Redemption required him to become something else.
"How will you fight an enemy that cares nothing for itself?"
—The Blind Seer

For centuries, the minotaur polis of Skophos was unknown to humans. It remains unexplored.
"If a boggart even dares breathe near one of my kin, I'll know. And I'll not be happy."

"Blood is constant. Every drop I drink, someone must bleed."
—Vradeen, vampire nocturnus


The Izzet signet is redesigned often, each time becoming closer to a vanity portrait of Niv-Mizzet.
The Izzet specialize in unnatural disaster.
The tiniest cough can be deadlier than the fiercest dragon.



"I use maps to find out where explorers have already been. Then I go the other way."
—Javad Nasrin, Ondu relic hunter
"I hate this! I hate fire! I hate you for taking me on this route!"
—Norin the Wary


One who goes unpunished never learns.
—Greek proverb

"High in the Karplusans, death is swift and razor-clawed."
—Arna Kennerüd, skycaptain
For some reason, goblin fighting school isn't as crowded on day two.
The best techniques outlive their creators.
"I knew a creature carved from a dream of wild freedom. Any attempt to leash or exploit it failed, and at terrible cost."
—Ashling

While it's true most Dragons are cruel, the Shivan Dragon seems to take particular glee in the misery of others, often tormenting its victims much like a cat plays with a mouse before delivering the final blow.

"Even you have a purpose. Your blood will oil the gears."
The legacy of evil lives on.

"Better the dead depart utterly than be enslaved."
The consuming undeath of Grixis terrifies the survivors of Vithia, but its fauna is just as fearsome.
For the first and last time, the horrific creature experienced terror.
"In troubled times, we all need someone to watch our back."

Panopticon, forge of the Darksteel Eye, home of Mirrodin's keeper.
"The gods used their feathers to paint all the colors of the world."
—Yare-Tiva, warden of Gramur Forest

An alien from another world, at first glance it looks funny. Maybe scary and also maybe ugly, but mostly funny.

When immovable object turns to unstoppable force, it's best to just get out of the way.
Dragon fire melts any instrument designed to measure it.
In the fight to defeat Phyrexia, the courage of Benalish knights is matched only by that of their pegasus steeds.
When nature calls, *run*.
"I never thought I'd spend my life fighting. I'm a maker, not a destroyer."


"Where will you run when I punish you with the very ground you flee on?"
—Nicol Bolas


"I came seeking a challenge. All I found was you."
—Zurgo, khan of the Mardu
The will to return can overpower the will to survive.

"Ach! Hans, run! It's the Lhurgoyf!"
—Saffi Eriksdotter, last words

Simic biomancers don't concern themselves with guarding a gate. Their ever-present creations are enough to ward off trespassers.
"Nothing can stop the power of life—not even death."
—Onean cleric
All Mirri wanted to do was rest, but she couldn't ignore a nagging suspicion as she followed Crovax's skulking form.






Whenever the Llanowar Elves gather the fruits of their forest, they leave one plant of each type untouched, considering that nature's portion.
"How can werewolves be considered abominations next to such creatures?"
—Arlinn Kord
Meddling mages chant so loudly that no one can get a spell in edgewise.




"Good is not a 'thing.' You can neither touch nor own it. No, Good is a vision we all share and strive to make real."
—Asmira, Holy Avenger

His eternal rest turned out to be more of a quick nap.

Charging alone takes uncommon daring or uncommon stupidity. Or both.
"Don't be fooled by the quiet. These old stones are trying to talk to you."
—Augusta, Lorehold dean
Master the sky and you rule everything beneath it.
—Metathran saying
"I abandoned my dream of a squadron of griffin-riders when the cost proved too high. Three trainers were eaten for every griffin broken to the bridle."
—King Darien of Kjeldor
"An appropriately detailed model is indistinguishable from reality, and much easier to control."

"We are all decaying, always in a state of near-death. One moment without breath and we begin to break down."
—Cevraya, Golgari shaman
The unicorns of Sursi are a manifestation of Serra's joy and compassion. They frolic and dance like children, offering blessings to anyone they encounter.

"There's nothing technology can build that nature can't eventually reclaim."
—Vivien Reid

"For each word spoken, one forgotten. For each thought, a memory rotten."
—Moriok incantation
Some protection requires a bit of finesse.

Great devotion yields great reward.
Pray that it doesn't seek the safety of your lungs.




"Once I was human. Now I am far more."
"This 'standing windstorm' can hold us off indefinitely? Ridiculous!" Saying nothing, she put a pinch of salt on the table. With a bang she clapped her hands, and the salt disappeared, blown away.
Werewolf slayers don't know for certain how werewolves are created. So they kill all the wolves, just to be safe.



"Coppercoats think they understand duty and loyalty, but they can't begin to fathom the depths of my bond."

"Your mind is too filled with foolish concerns to hear the subtle whispers that the breeze brings."


Studying the journals of the necromage Nevinyrral leaves disciples gripped with the urge to exercise his draconian judgment.





A hunger to soar must be sated.
Bladehold houses a rogues' gallery filled with the living "statues" of the worst enemies of the Auriok.
"The Harpers' movement grows, but it needs sunlight to blossom. We can be that light."
"The sky teems with just as much life as the forest or the deep seas."
—Hadi Kasten, Calla Dale naturalist

"I don't know that I'll win every fight. But I have faith, and that's carried me this far."

"Gnawed to death. Bad way to go."

"You studied hard. How delicious!"
"Death—an outmoded concept. We sleep, and we change."
—Sitrik, birth priest
It has a hundred thousand extinctions to avenge.
"The deal was struck and the favor had been done. And so, under the cover of night, the debt was paid."
—*Tales of the Fae*


The delicate sprites carry messages for Saprazzans, but they refuse to land in Mercadia City's filthy markets.
The mine's riches never end, nor do the moans of the spirits doomed to haunt them.



"As swift as a lash mamba, as sharp as a spineleaf, a stubborn as a wild grox."
—Colonel Pannet, in praise of the Catachan warrior
"Some people test limits. I prefer to demolish them."


Hedron lanterns fend off more than just the darkness.
The Mirari festers in its flesh.
Silverfurs are the last remaining wolfir.
"The seas are vast, but the skies are even more so. Why be content with one kingdom when I can rule them both?"

"Technology evolves faster than a blade can swing."
—Arima, lead inventor of the Futurists


"Words lie. People lie. The land tells the truth."




There's a chance to win every battle.

Though no longer attached to the hand, it still holds its adversary in its grasp.
"No, I don't believe they have the proper permits for those, but I'm not going to be the one to ask."
—Caru, Consulate warden
"Great art can never be created without great suffering."
"Rally to my light, and together we will drive out this darkness!"


What the current doesn't take, they do.
It's rare that the Prakhata Club closes its doors. It's also rare that Lord Gonti meets with Consul Kambal. What are the odds the two would occur on the same day?
Art is unknown to the vedalken—for them, all creations must serve a purpose.


The Yeti's single greatest asset is its unnerving ability to blend in with its surroundings.





Pietra's Mirthing Pod boasts an output that's hilarious and impressive—a real laugh a minute.


"Let the points of our lances lead the way."
"Aha! This must be one of the ancient keys to... No, wait. It's just another puzzle toy."

Kerrick's corrupt domain swelled like a blister on Tolaria's skin.
"Petting in the petting zoo is not advised."
—Astrotorium waiver
Armodons are trained to step on things. Enemy things.


Streams of gold and bright feathers flash in the orb, visions of past and future.

"Do try to pull your weight, Geralf. I feel like I'm doing everything."
—Ghoulcaller Gisa
Urza's metathran children were conceived, birthed, and nurtured by an integrated system of machines.

Gruul territorial markings need not be legible. The blood, snot, and muck used to smear them are unmistakably Gruul.
There's nothing more unsettling than locking blades with something that looks just like you.
Boros soldiers are like a cache of bombs ready to explode, and the flame-kin light their fuses.

In pursuit of Urza, the Phyrexians sent countless foul legions into Serra's realm. Though beaten back, they left it tainted with uncleansable evil.

"The Phyrexians *are* vulnerable. Do not despair. We will prevail!"
—Juryan, rebel leader

A thousand years ago, Phyrexia poisoned Serra's Realm and engineered its collapse. On shimmering waves generations in the making, the angels finally took their revenge.
The other tribes call them fanatics, but none deny that the Mul Daya elves have an iron-strong bond to some force greater than themselves.


"Volrath has killed me. All that remains of me is the scar!"
—Tahngarth


Does the stone mimic life, or did it once live?
Krark was the kind of goblin who'd lose his thumb in a wager and come right back with "Double or nothing!"
Meant to cut through the body and burn straight to the soul.
Fortunately, Hill Giants have large blind spots in which a human can easily hide. Unfortunately, these blind spots are beneath the bottoms of their feet.




"Others ask why the Eldrazi destroy. I ask why they preserve."
—Ganda, Goma Fada deserter
"If you've done nothing wrong, you have nothing to fear."
—Enforcer-Chief Ranaj


"There will come a day so dark you will pray for death. On that day your prayers will be answered."
—Minaldra, the Vizag Atum





She channels myth and memory into waves of deadly arcane force.

Infinite wisdom cannot be contained within a single mind.
After lightning struck the cliffs, the ore became iron, the iron became steel, and the steel became greaves. The lightning never left.
"Before they can go to their final rest, the wicked must be purified by fire."
—Harra the Adjudicator
"An indrik's howl has destructive power much subtler than that of its crushing foot. The sound is mundane, but inaudible vibrations scatter and sunder magical contrivances."
—Simic research notes
The massive dominate through might. The tiny survive with guile. Beware the tiny who become massive.
At his side, humble beasts become weapons more deadly than sharpened steel.

"Only cowards flee from the truth."
@-Perisophia the philosopher

"These Gruul skin-runes—discern whether their patterns evoke streets, leylines, or both. You have four days."
—Niv-Mizzet, to his assistant

"The hard part isn't landing in the saddle. The hard part is leaping before you see it."



Not to be. That is the answer.
The single-mindedness of a zombie, the cunning of an assassin.
"The air filled with dust and the sound of wingbeats. The mothriders had joined the fray."
—*Great Battles of Kamigawa*
"I've never seen the firemane angels so anxious."
—Tajic
The air was filled with the cracks and snaps of flesh hardening as the new sliver joined the battle.
Nature grows solutions to its problems.
"I see in their interconnectedness a strange embodiment of the natural order."
—Dionus, elvish archdruid



Wildflowers here bloom not with the season but with the ebb and flow of magic.

The Genestealer Cults rejoiced at the arrival of their gods . . . at first.
"When the Second Sun rests between the horns on the horizon, so begins the Hour of Revelation. Then the Hour of Glory, the Hour of Promise, and finally the Hour of Eternity."
—*The Accounting of Hours*




Feldon found the first of these canes frozen in the Ronom Glacier.
"I hope the idiot who introduced these creatures to the jungle was their first meal."
—Opar, veteran guide
When in doubt, stomp.
"We are no longer in control."
—Elekh, vizier of embalming

A sojourn through time gave dark inspiration to one gifted young mind.
"It is vain to look for a defense against lightning."
—Publius Syrus, Maxim 835, trans. Lyman


Nearly invisible strands of web reach far beyond its lair to alert it of the approach of prey.
"It is the nature of souls that they burn more brightly together than apart."
—Vessifrus, flamekin demagogue
"We earn no medals and fight for no titles. Blood is proof of our victory."
—Lovisa Coldeyes




"Daxos, I'm in need of a champion. Who else would I turn to but you?"

Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.
"The fires of invention burn in all of us. I fight for the freedom to unleash those flames."
—Pia Nalaar
"Would you like a song of wing-wind and fire, or one of gentle heartbeats atop a golden hoard?"

Every Ardenvale aspirant must step through the flame. Their honor determines whether they burn or shine.

"The pen is mightier than the crown."

As Trostani's influence grew, vitality spread through the Conclave—much to the other guilds' dismay.
The murk of the Wanderbrine concealed unseemly rituals designed to bring out the worst in merrowkind.




Shields up, spears out, heels set, hearts firm.
"Welcome to the greatest show in Kessig!"
Revenge is a circle without end.
"Tread carefully. You remember what happened in the last quiet, peaceful clearing."
—Halana, to Alena
Her triumph came not from escaping her death, but in claiming her independence.
The path back to the world of the living is murky and bewildering. A geist may not even realize that it's terrifying its own loved ones.
"The sad truth is that the whip of Erebos is long enough to wrap around all our throats."
—Perisophia the philosopher
Follow the light. In its absence, follow her.
As Trostani's influence grew, vitality spread through the Conclave—much to the other guilds' dismay.
All boggarts have an auntie, but they don't all have a mum.

"The Great Conduit connects us all."


Students from other colleges are invited to visit Witherbloom's medical facilities. Not many do.


Nature doesn't walk.
Æther can turn a footprint into a blueprint.



Speed to strike, fury to smash.
Sometimes the smallest nuisance can be the greatest pain.
It's not like anyone else really wanted it.
If you feel the ground quake, run. If you hear its bellow, flee. If you see its teeth, it's too late.
With his newfound sense of self-importance, Squee set his sights on ever-bigger bugs.


"Poor, foolish Veldrane. He goes wherever the Baron wills him. One day, he'll go to die."
—Halina, Dwarven Trader



The Blacklances travel deep into the wilds, sometimes for years at a time, in search of the lost Cauldron of Eternity.

"I fear to keep an open mind, for there are those who would use it as a door to my soul."
—Voka Schlak, Mauzam Asylum inmate, diary
Masters who sacrifice for servants will receive the gift of loyalty.
"Mercadia's masks can no longer hide the truth. Our day has come at last."

"Kaervek imprisoned Mangara out of jealousy, but he taints Jamuraa simply out of spite."
—Asmira, Holy Avenger


In the depths of Rootwater, salvage and sewage differ only in texture.
A single vivid feather fetches a royal price—but who, having seen these magnificent creations of Nature, would settle for a feather?

Refusing guild allegiances, she fights for those who can't protect themselves.
The parts are as strong as the whole.


The mushrooms growing in the wolves' fur possess curative properties incredible enough to tempt many alchemists into risking their lives to track one down.

"It would take another apocalypse to stop the slivers now."
—Riptide Project researcher



"Is the inevitable any less miraculous?"
—Veldka, wandering sage
"Naga shed their scales. We wear ours with pride."
—Golran, dragonscale captain
She will not touch a weapon, yet she is the greatest protector her people have ever known.
"Nothing is too broken to mend."


"One would think I would be accustomed to unexpected returns."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator
Only when you've given up the search will the caves yield their secrets.

"When good men die their goodness does not perish, / But lives though they are gone."
—Euripides,
*Termenidae*, trans. Morgan
"The secret to our war paint is hot peppers and stinkbugs. Lots of stinkbugs."
—Skab, goblin secretkeeper
I didn't think Mammoths could ever hold a candle to a well-trained battle horse. Then one day I turned my back on a drunken soldier. His blow never landed; Mi'cha flung the brute over ten meters.

An early inspiration for Urza, Tocasia's onulets contained magical essences that could be cannibalized after they stopped functioning.
TODAY'S FORTUNE: YOU WILL REGRET SPENDING YOUR MONEY ON THIS FORTUNE.
"AIIIEEEE!"
—Ib Halfheart, Goblin Tactician
"What is death?" he asked the raven. "Your next birth," it replied.

Leave a bowl of milk on your doorstep each night for the brownies, or they'll cause you no end of mischief.


"As we muster for war, I have little patience for lethargy or recalcitrance."

Cantankerous and territorial, sandwurms claim even the skies above their dunes.
From time, knowledge. From knowledge, power.
"Your enemies will pound upon the door of your defenses, but only you shall have the key, and it is the key of life."
—*Song of All*, canto 873
The myr are like quicksilver: malleable in function and adaptable in form.
"Killing the Eldrazi is not enough. We must erase all memory of them from this world."
—Greenweaver Mina


All Mirri wanted to do was rest, but she couldn't ignore a nagging suspicion as she followed Crovax's skulking form.
"We move because the earth does."
—Bruse Tarl, Goma Fada nomad
"The visions haunt me. I see the end of the world, brought on by the search for the Immortal Sun."
—Shaper Pashona


Lorwyn's stones resonate with the place from which they were hewed. Though taken far, still they call to their home when silence is upon the land.
"Life's greatest lessons don't come from focus or concentration. They come from breathing and simply noticing."
—Seton, centaur druid
"Be as fast as lightning, and you will be just as deadly."
—Combat trainer




His mission has become a grim pilgrimage, a tour of the Eldrazi-stricken outposts across Zendikar. But he marches on alone, stubborn as the daily dawn.


Furious to find the workshop empty, the starving vampires flew into a frenzy.

"Mama says it's my imagination, but I know you'd never lie to me."
Genius is overrated, especially when it's someone else's.
Trade to trade, not to keep.
—Suq'Ata motto
He will be your loyal champion, and his pack your protectors. All he asks for is a full belly, a spot by the fire, and all the love in your heart.

Oona's song is like a twisted dinner chime. All the faeries return home, but it is Oona who feasts—on the stolen dreams and rumors they serve her.
Knowledge knows no bounds.
"Instinct is undaunted by terror, unchained by logic. It is the path from which all other paths diverge."
—*Volume V, The Book of Life*
"May the memory of our fallen heroes ensnare the violent hearts of lesser men."
—Great Threshold of Monserkat inscription







The Cho-Arrim fought Mercadia's decadence with more than just swords.

History has buried its treasures deep.


"Ideas drift like petals on the wind. I have only to lift my face to the breeze."
Guarded by cartographers, disdained by warlords, coveted by adventurers.


Zap on. Zap off.
During their endless travels, the mages of the Goma Fada caravan have learned ways to harness both life and death.

Carefully following the thaumatic compass Bolas had given her, Vraska blundered straight into the River Heralds' trap.
"We came to a place where the skin of Zendikar was peeled back and its bones lay bare to the sky."
—Greenweaver Mina
"Make me thy lyre, even as the forest is:
What if my leaves are falling like its own!"
—Percy Bysshe Shelley,
"Ode to the West Wind"









Mountaineers quickly learn to travel with their spears always pointed up.
"A mind may be steeled against madness, but all battlements fall in time."
—Jin-Gitaxias, Core Augur
"Is it worse to walk while dead, or to be buried alive? I have witnessed both."
—Crovax


The academy worked with time—until time ran out.
"It is forbidden. Asking why is irrelevant."
—Sergiu, Opal Lake magistrate



Urza exploited nature to power his war machines; in time, nature exploited his war machines to renew itself.
"Let them cry for mercy. The only one who can hear them is me."
—Siglind the Conqueror
"The Matrons still say Serra is coming back. I bet she never even existed."
—Murat, Death Speaker
"'Invincible' is just a word."
—Gideon Jura
The creations of the hand are confined by reality. The creations of the mind know no such limits.
It was midnight on the Daru Plains, yet it seemed the sun was rising.
"The Mercadians are too busy looking down on us to see us coming."
—Cho-Arrim rebel
Fangren spur may sound louder, but Viridian resurgents claim that the horn of the vorrac creates a truer, more inspiring note.
It took all its strength to contain the fire within.
"Bloodsuckers, howlers, monsters from the beyond . . . it doesn't much matter. I won't have to face them alone."



2013 Legacy Championship Winner


"One look at this glorious item convinced me that Kaladesh deserved my full attention. Sure enough, my time here has yielded exquisite fruit."
—Tezzeret

It surveys the withering landscape, waiting for a victory only it can see.
"Kor armorers buy the scales and claws. Elf oracles buy the rest."
—Nablus, North Hada trapper
When the Nebelgast recedes, there are often stragglers.

Valuing scholarship above all else, the inhabitants of the Ivory Tower reward those who sacrifice power for knowledge.






The Mirari pulses in his veins.
A master of tactics, the Lord of Atlantis makes his people bold in battle merely by arriving to lead them.
The flasks provide ballast, a means of steering, and—with a little luck—a way to deliver ward-spells to cohorts below.

"What's better than smashing things with a rock? A rock that gets up and smashes things for you."
—Toggo, goblin weaponsmith
"The foot stone is connected to the ankle stone, the ankle stone is connected to the leg stone..."
—Song of the Artificer

One was spared to tell the gruesome tale.
Once he gets up and going, he will forever shamble on.
The Quicksilver Sea hissed and bubbled at the indignity. The Vulshok shaman just smiled.



"Few can coax the creatures within the magma to be cooled and take form."
—Koth of the Hammer
Where cathars learn to fight not only demons and vampires, but ignorance as well.
"The Argivian University taught me two things: always look to the past, and never dismiss what appears useless."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator
"Our formation was scattered after Sea Gate fell. If you're fighting the Eldrazi, consider us your newest recruits."



"I can offer only information, young one. What path you choose is up to you."
—Jadzi, Oracle of Arcavios

The most important skill in a Mage Tower match is keeping one's cool.
Kapsho merfolk have infiltrated fortresses as remote as the desert citadel in Sunari in their relentless quest for arcane knowledge.

Those it won't scare, it scars.



Mephidross gives up treasure easily . . . as long as you take its place.
It loathes all tastes but two: spells and flesh.

When nature calls, *run*.

Oddly, an unstable time stream makes wizards want to tinker with it even more.
Nethya stiffened suddenly, head cocked as if straining to hear some distant sound, then fell lifeless to the ground.


The moment Liliana defied Nicol Bolas, her contract was broken, and her life was forfeit. But she was free to choose her fate, and she decided it was worth the price.

The first step in any artificer's scheme is to take inventory.






"The land grows only where the kami will it."
—Dosan the Falling Leaf


You only need to wield it once to appreciate the power of control.


"It's a perfect partnership. My village is safe from wolf attacks, and she gets to eat any vampires we catch."

There was no darker or more evil creation in all the multiverse than that of the mana screw.

"Only the decadent think magic should be pristine and without cost."
"I am the simplifier, the root that drags all artifice to earth."
—Seal inscription
"The pain of exploring is less than the pain of not knowing."
—Tamiyo

It spilled the blood of one elder dragon. In Gideon's hands, it may yet taste another's.
While it's true most Dragons are cruel, the Shivan Dragon seems to take particular glee in the misery of others, often tormenting its victims much like a cat plays with a mouse before delivering the final blow.

To keep the Reality Chip out of Jin-Gitaxias's hands, the Wanderer entrusted it to Tamiyo.


Hatred outlives the hateful.
Where Razia was aloof and untouchable, Aurelia is on the frontlines, calling for war.

She puts some coin in the Guild's pocket and sends a message at the same time.
Mist is the geists' sorrow. Wind is their pain. Fire is their vengeance.
"In event of siege, load copiously with: hot oil, cannonballs, caltrops, rubble, old swords, mess-hall leftovers, chamber pots, broken chairs, salt, cousin Furt . . ."
—Trebuchet instructions
Noggles believe that they were the first race ever to walk Shadowmoor. They don't "steal." They just take back what's rightfully theirs.

"Everything around her suffers."
—Haddad, Kipamu soldier

"Virtue has its rewards, as does its opposite."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
The swarm seemed unmoved by the artificial slivers' destruction. "They clearly were not the leaders," Hanna cursed. "I guess we'll have to do this the hard way."
"Nature is more merciless than any hunter I've ever known."
—Zai, nightsquad captain
The finest soldiers aren't worth a whit without a set of hands to lead them and a set of eyes to guide them.




The Abzan merchants soon discovered why this route was clear of dragons.






"Callaphe guided them into the
darkness of Hetos, the bleak mire;
Blood-horned minotaurs circled them,
axes aglimmer in shadow."
—*The Callapheia*

The rights of ghosts are strictly protected under Orzhov bylaws, and those who enforce them can count on the ghosts' assistance.
A master of tactics, the Lord of Atlantis makes his people bold in battle merely by arriving to lead them.
Everybody is worth their weight in gold.
Telim'Tor could no longer recall the exact number of assaults—but his troops could.
"Our recruitment drives are bringing in fewer fresh troops every day. We need a new strategy."
—Urza, to Tawnos
"We traffic in flesh, not souls. Still, it's a shame to let anything go to waste."
—Cevraya, Golgari shaman

There is power in the abyss, in blackness more profound than the darkest dreams.
"I saw the devastation when the juggernauts crashed the walls of An Karras. Then I got to thinking."
—Janji, sylvan druid
She had expected death to roar, to thunder, to growl. She did not recognize it when it came hissing to her side.
The best leaders are made by their followers.
Benalia has a complex caste system that changes with the lunar year. No matter what the season, the only caste that cannot be attained by either heredity or money is that of the Hero.

Mages of Esper measure their wealth and status by the number of servants in their retinues.

Spreading a blanket of growth to warm a weary world.
Cast out of the Conclave generations ago, these elves found a home in the corrupted districts of the Golgari.
When the forests became havens for evil, the archmages devised new ways to cleanse the wilds.
"Tread upon these flower beds at your own peril."
—Emmara
"I treat each day as your last."
YOUR AD HERE


Impossibly tall, improbably elegant.

"The amphin have long built their society in secret. While surface dwellers squabbled over trivial borders, they patiently expanded, building their ammonite temple-caves. Now amphin priests eye the shore, and amphin hunters gird for war."
—Gor Muldrak, *Cryptohistories*


Many fields now lie fallow in Gavony, as the oxen have been confiscated to perform other duties.
There is nowhere on Lorwyn that the Merrow Lanes cannot go.
To renew the land, plow the land. To destroy the land, do nothing.
—Druids' saying
Ugin saw the gem that connected Bolas to his Meditation Realm as the key to his brother's downfall.


She reaches beyond the physical realm, touching the ideals from which all creatures draw their power.
After a chimeric idol attacked them, the Keldons smashed all unfamiliar statues.
She remembers all those who would otherwise be forgotten.
"In the gathering there is strength for all who founder, renewal for all who languish, love for all who sing."
—*Song of All*, canto 642

Two eyes to see what could be, two eyes to see what will.
"May bloodflies empty your veins and turn you into a dried leather sack, cow!"
—Bruse Tarl, Goma Fada nomad




There are medicines for all afflictions but idleness.
—Suq'Ata saying
Take two steps north into the unsettled future, south into the unquiet past, east into the present day, or west into the great unknown.



"Molten earth has no anger of its own. Only by infusing it with your own rage can the magma seethe and take shape."
—Koth of the Hammer
Beauty is a seed, waiting to blossom under her capable hands.
"When you confront a wolf scorned by its pack, extra caution is the order of the day."
—Raf Gyel of the Quiver of Kessig

"Where metal is tainted and wood is scarce, we are best armed by faith."
—Tavalus, acolyte of Korlis
It started as a mere drop of water. The Magic Mirror crystallized it into much more.
"The secret entrance should be near."

It took the banning of temporal manipulation at Tolaria West to teach its students the value of time.

"The longer the journey, the more one learns."
—Isanke, Halimar seastalker




Mirrodin's inhabitants must be prepared for anything—including suddenly being unprepared.
Marella was delighted. The ball had attracted so many suitors for her daughter, including that handsome stranger. She wondered where the two were now . . . .
The mere approach of an Abzan war beast is enough to send enemies fleeing in panic.




Although my later designs were much more sophisticated, Basal Thrulls were no less a success."
—Endrek Sahr, "Thrulls"
Ground bones, broken glass, and splintered shipwrecks make up the sands of his shores.











"When are beasts like a river?"
—*The One Thousand Questions*

Yavimaya lights the quickest path to battle.

Onora knew with sudden, grim certainty he would never see the Great River again.


"Well, if that goblin didn't want his tongue pierced, he shouldn't have stuck it out at me."

When Asha left Bant, she ensured that the world would have protection and order in her absence.
In life, it was a fetid, disease-ridden thing. In death, not much changed.
It readily attacks much larger prey, knowing retaliation is impossible.

"I don't know what that is or who it belongs to, but it's shiny and I want it."



"He traded sand for skins, skins for gold, gold for life. In the end, he traded life for sand."
—Afari, *Tales*
He collects the precious metals, and then converts the rest to propellant.
Die beneath a tree, wake up a part of it.



"What you attempt to pull from the Æther, I can spread onto the wind."
—Jace Beleren
Just as a changeling's influence can have dramatic effects, so too can its sudden withdrawal.
"The worst thing about being a mercenary for the Ebon Hand is having to wear a dead thrull."
—Ivra Jursdotter
"The Lowlands refuse to suffer at the whims of the High City."
"Greet death with sword in hand."

"Sleep? I can sleep when I'm dead!"
"Let no child be without a sword. We will all fight, for if we fail, we will certainly all die."
—Oracle *en*-Vec





His words echo every roar, screech, and howl of the wilds.
Sometimes it's useful to take a break from existence.
"Keep your chainmail, warrior. I have my own form of protection."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran Priest
It treads on feet of coals and strikes with the force of a volcano.
"My left has felled a cyclops. My right has slain a giant. I bring both to every fight."

Amidst the darkest ashes grow the strongest seeds.
Not all enormous beasts are quick to anger.
Volunteers rarely questioned why the airborne battalion always seemed to be recruiting.

"The foul entities of the Uuserk swamp had never before dared to spread their influence to the very heart of Zhalfir."
—Hakim, Loreweaver

"Words lie. People lie. The land tells the truth."
Once guarded by the Knights of the Reliquary, the tower stands now protected only by its own remoteness, its dusty treasures open to plunder by anyone.
"There is no time to remedy our enemies' ignorance. Blast it out of them."
—Aurelia
Mongo's fleas no longer bothered him. But the family of goblins that had moved in behind his left ear was starting to get really irritating.


Small enough to penetrate the narrowest crack in a castle wall and numerous enough to hack apart a griffin.

"From the first touch, I know exactly what the metal wants to be."
"Soul, flesh, even eyes—none of these are strictly necessary for deadly precision."
—Modriss of Zargoth Fen

He knows the name of every elf born in the last four centuries. More importantly, they all know his.
"What you made will be unmade. What you learned will be unlearned. And when you're done, you will be undone."
—Ambassador Laquatus
The Brothers' War scarred the land, but Ashnod left her mark in the bloodlines of those she tortured.
Some vampires resorted to corpse trading after cathars burned their estates and drove them from their ancestral feeding grounds.

"Faith's shield is hammered out by the blows of unbelievers."
—Oracle *en*-Vec
Khenra are almost always born as twins. Their instinctual connection lends itself well to their preferred fighting style.




As powerful and malleable as the molten rock it calls home.

Great devotion yields great reward.
"I can see why this appeals to Thassa."
—Kiora



"Do we know what we're doing? Yes—the will of Freyalise."
—Laina of the Elvish Council

Rhonas's monument is home to a wider variety of creatures than anywhere else in the city of Naktamun—a feature most initiates fail to appreciate.



"No one petal claims beauty for the lotus."


Spells of madness often require a sacrifice of sanity.



"The tiniest ripple tells a story ten fathoms deep."
Even the smallest drop of its deadly venom will subtract decades from your lifespan.
"Temper, temper."
—Ertai, wizard adept

Blood is holy to those whose god is War.
"The dragonlords rule the tempests of the skies. Here in the wastes, the storms are mine to command."
Built from a reconfigured thresher, it charges with light reflected off the golden plain, ready to take to the air in case of danger.

"The things I once imagined would be my greatest achievements were only the first steps toward a future I can only begin to fathom."
—Jace Beleren
The elfhames are the closest thing to "civilization" the elves allow themselves.



"You and your ship will make a fine addition to my fleet."





Memories of ages past are said to swim the minds of lounging fallowsages.


No matter the cruelty of Oko's jokes, he's always guaranteed the sycophant's laughter.

"Let the flames ignore the sinless."
"Tonight, madam, it's your money *and* your life."
"It will be battle-ready before our strike at Oxid Ridge, and it will guarantee our victory."
—Ketuc of the Helm

"With the Brotherhood of Gix whispering in his ear, Mishra's drive to prove himself was slowly twisted into an insatiable hunger for power."
-*The Antiquities War*
Four things that never meet do here unite
To shed my blood and to ravage my heart,
A radiant brow and tresses that beguile
And rosy cheeks and a glittering smile."
—*The Arabian Nights*, trans. Haddawy
"It's easy to get taken in by the spectacle, to enjoy a bit of naughty amusement. But make no mistake: the Cult of Rakdos is a danger."
—Tajic

"It is a slaughter, the death of a sea. Never speak of it again."
—The Lord of Atlantis

With a commando around, somebody's gonna get hurt.

"The elves are right: Death inevitably leads to life. But the truly powerful don't just experience this cycle. They control it."
—Crovax, ascendant evincar
She incubates her eggs in gold and mana.
It loathes all tastes but two: spells and flesh.


The Nightmare arises from its lair in the swamps. As the poisoned land spreads, so does the Nightmare's rage and terrifying strength.
After the Battle of Liet Field, the white sun crested above Taj-Nar, bringing hope to all who survived the carnage.
"Many scales make the skin of a dragon."
—Abzan wisdom
"Tell the cooks to prepare the fires. Tonight we feast!"
—Tolar Wolfbrother, Krosan tracker


As the great scourge passed by, Zendikar shivered, then lay silent.


Each spell is an intricate tapestry, and Kira is the great unraveler.
"I've seen death before. My mother succumbing to illness, my comrades bleeding on the battlefield . . . But I'd never seen anything as dreadful as that."
—Taani, berserker of Etlan


"How strong is he? Well, I once lost control of the plow, and he carved a furrow right through my house! Didn't even slow down."
—Guldir, Beskir farmer
Instructors at the Kasarna training grounds are capable healers in case their students fail to grasp the subtleties of combat.

Leonos had no second thoughts about the abolishment edict. He'd left skyrunes warning of the eviction, even though it was cloudy.
Your family needed a farmer, so you tilled. Your town needed a fighter, so you trained. When your people needed a leader, you knew what you had to do.

"The common folk are ceaselessly active. The fields are fertile and the soil productive, and neither flood nor drought plagues us."
—A Shu diplomat
Every kor blade is imbued with the skill of a thousand generations.
There is no knowledge that is not power.
. . . iiiiiiinnnn . . .


"Which do you deserve, the heft of a femur or the graceful sharpness of a forearm? Decisions, decisions . . ."
—Gisa the Mad
"Close your ears to the voice of greed, and you can turn a gift for one into a gift for many."

Every action has a foreseen purpose.

Lanterns carved from the mystic stones of the Reito Mines were said to light the way of lost souls.
Urza and Mishra weren't the only denizens of Terisiare to covet the powerstones' energy.
The great library in the Museum of Old Capenna has a million volumes on display—and miles of passages hidden behind them.
"By the time you've seen it all, all have already changed."
—Wandering treant, name unknown


Jund feasts on the unprepared.
Like a great bellows it hisses, and its kin, both living and dead, are lifted to safety.


Blessed by a thousand prayers.
The old hermit would never say what he fed his mushrooms, and people learned not to ask.
"I don't know if the gods watch over their temples, but I figure it's best to be stealthy just in case."
"I've journeyed across Dominaria. Phyrexians are everywhere. Plague is everywhere. There's no place left to hide."

It's not hard to find work in Rishada, so long as you've got a strong back and don't ask too many questions.

"Only the weak imprison themselves behind walls. We live free under the wind, and our freedom makes us strong."
—Zurgo, khan of the Mardu
The noble steeds of the elven gods can sometimes be persuaded to allow mere mortals on their backs.
In the gardens of the centaurs, many travelers have mysteriously vanished while admiring the elaborate topiaries.
Deep within Eiganjo Castle lay the Palace of Infinite Halls, a seemingly endless network of corridors once guarded by a seemingly endless legion of samurai.

Now that you've clearly hit the "marsh" part of Lizard Marsh, you begin to worry about the "lizard" part.
The most beautiful souls shine even in death.
Even after a false god tore the magic from Dominaria, power still radiated from the Mirari sword that slew her.


"The harder they try to extinguish my faith, the brighter it burns in the darkness."

Steady and silent as the deep current, the reejerey guides the course of the school.

"Some aspire to climb the mountain of Honor. The Benalish are born upon its peak, and from there ascend among the stars."
—*History of Benalia*
"What she sees, I see. What she tastes, I taste."
"Paint gold upon the wind, Shape the wind into a shield, And vanish behind the brightness."
—Snow-Fur, kitsune poet

"Yesterday I didn't recognize my own guild. Today I see why. And for tomorrow I must be prepared."
—Niv-Mizzet

A cross between a jaguar and an armadillo.




"We merrows need not be disadvantaged when fighting on land. We lack the vulnerability of those who breathe only through their throats."
—Minnarin, merrow reejerey

"Birth and death are both reversible."
—Nicol Bolas
Its only predators are the elements.
"Eldrazi? Ha! Try walking through Zulaport at night with your pockets full. Now *that's* dangerous."
Unhappy with the creation of the wolfir, Rorica broke with her order and led a crusade against the "reformed werewolves."

"Beings of the rifts are not natural. No longer will these abominations tread upon the body of Gaea."
Carefully following the thaumatic compass Bolas had given her, Vraska blundered straight into the River Heralds' trap.
She doesn't escort the dead to the afterlife, but instead raises them to fight and die again.
Tawnos built his clay statues for durability, not knowing they'd keep fighting long after the war.
Even the oppressive cold of the cave could not temper Eladamri's ire.

"Open the gates, and bid them enter."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"All I require is faith, loyalty, obedience, trust, and complete and utter devotion."

Wars are won with strength, valor, and numbers—especially numbers.



"It's us against the world. Forever."
"Don't be fooled. If it were as docile as it looks, it would've died off long ago."
—Yon Basrel, Oran-Rief survivalist

It chews open Mirrodin's husk and feeds on the outpouring of energy.
The golems of the ancient Thran still draw power in ways that baffle the artificers of today.

"Edahlis, what *is* that thing? We should have stayed in Yavimaya . . . ."
—Aznaph, greenseeker



"He steals power from treasure after treasure, and what does it do for the ouphe? Nothing."
—Jhoira
"Eye of twilight, give us sight. Take our offer, give us might. Make our power tears of night."
"Halana grew brambles to create a barricade around our camp, hoping that it would keep the wolves out. That was a mistake for which we almost paid dearly."
—Alena, trapper of Kessig
Those who can't conspire, create.
Elite training, single-minded devotion, and lazotep coating help only so much for invaders who are fundamentally bite-sized.

In Lorwyn's brief evenings, the sun pauses at the horizon long enough for a certain species of violet to bloom with the fragrance of mischief.
"The Brassclaws delighted in lightning raids on Icatian and Dwarven towns; an unprepared enemy is easier to defeat."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV*
"The most profound secrets lie in the darkest places of the world. It can be prudent to make use of another set of eyes."
—Sidisi, Silumgar vizier
She will not touch a weapon, yet she is the greatest protector her people have ever known.


"A hedron holds magic for a thousand years—or less, if need be."
"Let the others bicker over their little worlds and stars. I have an empire of knowledge, and it encompasses all others."
—Trazyn the Infinite

"For the life of every plane, I will keep watch."
The storm rages and the earth breaks.
"You might believe being dead for centuries has made me more lenient. I think you'll find the opposite is true."
"May all the cairns of Jund be toppled."
—Meren of Clan Nel Toth

To gain audience with the hegemon, one must bring a riddle she has not heard.
The scent of rot and vinegar fills the marsh, inviting boggarts from every warren to reunite and feast.
"Holy places are no longer sanctuary from death, and death is no longer sanctuary from anything."
—Thalia, Knight-Cathar
"We are all inextricably linked, souls woven in tapestry."



Serum was once derived from Mirrodin's blinkmoths, offering visions of inspiration. Now it is pulled from Phyrexian inkmoths, yielding visions of perfection.

"Without flame, there would be no iron tools, no cooked meals, no purge of old growth to make room for new."
—Brighthearth creed
"My power is as vast as the plains, my strength is that of mountains. Each wave that crashes upon the shore thunders like blood in my veins." —*Memoirs*
An explorer's reward is a view of tomorrow's possibilities.
Small aeronaut societies like the Wind-Kin had little to lose by siding with the renegades, and much to gain.


'Twas in the bogs of Cannelbrae My mate did meet an early grave 'Twas nothing left for us to save In the peat-filled bogs of Cannelbrae.

The forlorn cries of the dead combine to make its laugh.

Awake and awing in the blink of an eye.



As blood touched the empty page, it formed words that seared themselves into the wizard's mind.
"I have attuned the staff to your screams so that only I may benefit from your pain."
—Volux, disciple of Nin

Without Garenbrig's strength, the realm would succumb to the wilds.


"Each reality is but the dream of another, and each sleeper a god unknowing."

Whether lives or precious artifacts, no price was too high to stop the Phyrexian invasion.
The stench of bloodcap mushrooms on the breath is enough to ward off even the most potent magics, especially when combined with a special chant: "Hushhh."
"Folklore has it that to capture a mountain goat is a sign of divine blessing. I just know it's a sign that dinner is on the way."
—Klazina Jansdotter, Leader of the Order of the Sacred Torch


"All the dead sleep lightly here, no matter how refined their beds may be."
—Grafdigger Wulmer
"Scour this world of these impudent trespassers!"
—Lord Traedrekkh of the Sekemtar Dynasty
The raging behir reared back, opened its terrible maw . . . and collapsed in a fit of horrifying giggles.
"Always a welcome sight breaking through the clouds."
—Talrand, sky summoner

"If that brain can't figure out the secret of the serum, then add more brains."
—Rhmir, Hand of the Augur
"Returne from whence ye came. . . ."
—Edmund Spenser, *The Faerie Queene*

"A regression to ancient forms? A glimpse of future evolutions? Or a fleeting alteration of the present?"
—Vorel of the Hull Clade
"I no longer believe in a final resting place."
—Shauku, Endbringer
"Poor, lost mage. Your feet are on land, yet you're in over your head, aren't you?"
"You harbor such vast potential. It would be such a shame to let you die of old age."
—Zul Ashur, lich lord
Myra doesn't pay the vampires to smile—but only because guests found it off-putting.


"Improvement is a consequence of practice."
—Stitcher Geralf

A typical day for a giant. A momentous event for a goat.

Zombies mourn for the living and celebrate those who will soon be given the gift of death.
Kicking the warren
—Argivian expression meaning "causing trouble"

"Ixalli's fertile rays enliven us all. Each of us is a testament to the sun's strength and love."
—Chitlati, Lightning Rider


Rather than sheltering her young, the female Fungusaur often injures her own offspring, thereby ensuring their rapid growth.
"The rate of spread in this region is unacceptable. Start again."
—Davvol, Evincar of Rath

The ingenuity of goblins, the depravity of demons, and the smarts of sheep.
"It is fascinating to see how the people of this plane replicate magical techniques without a natural gift. Also frustrating."
—Jace Beleren

"They thought their fortress impregnable . . . until we marched up with ours, and blocked out the sun."
—Golran, dragonscale captain

With a single act of bravery, she went from expendable to indispensable.
Her knack for tampering with wards got her kicked out of the academy, but they also got her back in.

"We draw our power from the infinite ocean of the mind, where all manner of things can be conceived."
—Azure creed
"Catch!"




Attracting a dragon's attention may be the last mistake you make.

Even the bitterest enemies of the Burning-Tree Clan respect the strength of Borborygmos's rule.

"Reach in this hole, lose a hand. Reach in that hole, find a sparkly."
—Auntie wisdom

Altered by Phyrexian science, corrupted by black mana, and twisted by rage, Ertai still looked in the mirror and saw only glory.

Asses to ashes, Donkeys to dust.


In every swirl of the tide, it sees the awakening of things yet to come.
"I've seen my master do this a hundred times. How hard can it be?"


Avacyn's holy warriors kept hope alive in her darkest hours. Now they will carry that hope across Innistrad.

The people of the Sevick Isles have a unique understanding of the term "ominous clouds."
When they call, nature answers.

"The dead have it easy. They suffer no more. If breaking their rest helps the living, so be it."
—Olka, mistmeadow witch

"Ahh! Opposable digits!"
Mirri's hackles rose as Ertai continued expounding his virtues. "If that arrogant brat doesn't shut up soon," she growled to herself, "I'm going to have to kill him."




Elemental Evil distorts the natural elements, limiting them to aspects of destruction.


"I'm always a little leery of anyone who offers to kill other people for free."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*
Between the thunderous footfalls of Naya's behemoths lie moments of perfect quiet.
When battling the Kolaghan, consider yourself lucky if lightning strikes the same place only twice.
It despises humans and squirrels and beasts and dwarves and cephalids . . . well, it despises just about everything.

Ob Nixilis extends his hand not in partnership, but to affirm your subservience.
Deep in nature's core lies a potential unsullied by greed or civilization.

"This is why we don't go out in banewasp weather."
—Rannon, Vithian holdout

Those kitsune trained in the blade preferred to fight with a blade-catching jitte in the off hand, buying them just enough time to deliver the first deadly cut.
"There is no true equity of power. There is only more and less."


A uniform fit for a goblin.
"No good will come of this."
"Do you thirst for knowledge no matter the cost?"
—Watnik, master glassblower
"We tolerate the North Hada thieves' den, but cutthroats who wander downriver earn a skymanta ride out to sea."
The Golgari support a vast army because death never ends its soldiers' service.

"Monsters dwell in every heart. We only think civilization tames them."
@-Euphemia, Nexus watcher
A sip of recollection, an ocean of regrets.





"My rule persists beyond death itself."
History has buried its treasures deep.



Ugin's magic reaches beyond the dragons. The clans have adapted it for war.

"It has been my experience that disasters like to strike in pairs."


As Glissa searches for the truth about Memnarch, Bosh searches to unearth the secrets of his past.


"Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks! rage! blow!" —William Shakespeare, *King Lear*
"That which nourishes can also bind."
—Gemma, Willow Priestess


The wisest man builds his house *behind* the rock.
"Stepping through time is like riding a camel. It may get you where you want to go, but the ride is rarely pleasant."
—Teferi

A reward is worthless if you aren't around to enjoy it.
"Hup, two, three, four,
Dunno how to count no more."
—Mogg march


"I need no axe to best these weaklings."
"How ironic that the greatest forge of civilization is battle."
—Mangara
"Where are we? You must learn to ask more useful questions than that."
Selkies call to a sea they never swam, in a tongue they never spoke, with a song they never learned.

It is much easier to create fire than to contain it.
These slivers, trapped between worlds since the Rathi overlay, are among the last to claim direct lineage from the lost Sliver Queen.

Most living things were weakened and stunted in the ruinous aftermath of the Phyrexian invasion, but a few grew more horrid than ever.

" . . . Cao Pi, Cao Rui, Fang, Mao, and briefly, Huan— / The Sima took the empire in their turn. . . ."

"A single chord brings them to heel. A whole song, and they dance."
—Yisan, the wanderer bard


"Only the weak imprison themselves behind walls. We live free under the wind, and our freedom makes us strong."
—Zurgo, khan of the Mardu
Such power grows the body as it shrinks the soul.
"Not all in our crop deserve the afterlife. We must leave the unworthy behind, Samut."
—Djeru, initiate of Tah crop
It embodies the riotous growth of the jungle, where creatures crowd upon creatures, where roots sprawl and vines swarm.
"My vengeance will drown my enemies as my storms drown the desert."
—Ixidor, reality sculptor



The calm comes after the storm.
Treefolk and elves share a common interest in the forests, but really the elves just feel at home with the view from above.
"Have you ever held a Boros signet? There's a weight to it that belies its size—a weight of strength and of pride."
—Agrus Kos


The Azure Drake would be more powerful were it not so easily distracted.

Subservience to greater power is the only law in the pit.
The streets of Ravnica are full of former guild members now using their institutional skills for personal gain.



"Soulless demon, you are bound to me. Now we will both dwell in oblivion."
Employees were instructed to refer to meteor showers as "impromptu fireworks."

"The specimen seems to be broken."



"The powers of the corrupt will fade before the fury of the pure."
—Bethan Leitbur, "The Way"
"Emrakul makes apparent those whom she has favored."
—Runo Stromkirk
She talks using riddles her disciples alone can unravel.

Sisay discovered that the mirrored hull of the *Weatherlight* could be used as a defensive weapon.
Seeking to learn why the ancestors have fallen silent, you've made your way to their ancient cairns.
The fight will continue on a new battlefield.



In life, the nantuko study nature by revering it. In death, they study nature by disemboweling it.
"Death is merely another foe the Mardu will overcome."
"Ihsan, the weak. Ihsan, the fallen. Ihsan, the betrayer. He has brought shame to the Serra paladins where none existed before. May his suffering equal his betrayal."
—Baris, Serra inquisitor
"My falcons are family, as much as any other member of my clan."
"To immortality."

The Orzhov clergy would never cross its path, but sending thrull couriers to do so is cheap and entertaining.
"A massacre? It is a mercy we grant them. This way they won't freeze to death."
"Neither could I forget what I had read of these pits—that the *sudden* extinction of life formed no part of their most horrible plan."
—Edgar Allan Poe,
"The Pit and the Pendulum"



Changeling magic grants unusual wishes.
One of the most ferocious and deadly gargantuans, the thoctar never sees its worshippers, but it often awakens surrounded by gifts and sacrifices.

There is only so much a person may be buried with.


"We must save you from yourselves."


For the Goblin Explosioneers, there's no crater like home.



Spells will shun you, as will everyone else.

"Quick, Rhirhok—teach me to swim!"
—Makht, goblin casualty

For wisdom's sake, it was built high to gaze on all things. For glory's sake, it was built high as a testament of power. For strength's sake, it was built high to repel all attacks.

"Dust Drinker," "The Swirling Storm," "The Searing Wind"—Hokori had many names, but none of them was "The Merciful."
There is no natural disaster quite like orcish farming.

Most books simply deliver knowledge. This one expects some in return.
". . . 'First take Jingzhou, next the Riverlands; / On that rich region, base your own royal stand.' . . ."

Many heroes' last sight is a grin at the other end of a rapier.
"Phyrexians are tenacious. That's not the same thing as clever."
—Tezzeret

It feeds on dry bones in the sand and desperate pleas in the wind.



An explorer's reward is a view of tomorrow's possibilities.
Mirrodin's creator still lives, still shapes metal, and still commands world-shaking power.
Knowledge knows no bounds.

"If there's a place worth going, the Merrow Lanes already do. And if there's a route worth taking, yours truly already has."
The Neurok see the artificer as an archaeologist, clearing away falsehoods to see the truth hidden beneath.

The necratog can always dig up a meal.



Once a fierce foe, she would become one of Madara's greatest protectors.
"Why should I be bound by rules when I can see so far beyond them?"

"To truly know something, you must become it. The trick is to not lose yourself in the process."
Misery, filth, disease—all things that bring suffering to the world—only make Phyrexians more dangerous.
"No one petal claims beauty for the lotus."





"The hive shimmered, and its walls seemed a living mirror."
—Hastric, Thunian scout




The flamekin are mere kindling for his warmth.
Like the tide, time both ebbs and flows.

"Ours is to honour the martyr, tend the fallen, defend the innocent, and walk always in the light."
—*The Hospitaller's Book of Hours*



Death is no excuse to stop working.

For peace of mind, they mustered for war.
In ashes are the gems of history.

All crave the Blessed Sleep. Few receive it.
The only sound was the gentle clicking of the Faeries' wings. Then those intruders who were still standing turned and fled. One thing was certain: they didn't think the Scryb were very funny anymore.
Together the soldiers were like a golden blade, cutting down their enemies and scarring the darkness.
Their newfound wings shined elegantly and functioned partially.
"Earth to æther, window to wonder, stillness to the sky."
—Glazing incantation
Better potent than predictable.
The Minotaurs of the Hurloon Mountains are known for their love of battle. They are also known for their hymns to the dead, sung for friend and foe alike. These hymns can last for days, filling the mountain valleys with their low, haunting sounds.
"You may not be able to pay. But you can still kneel."
—Milana, Orzhov prelate
"Only a fool takes Phenax at his word. What do you expect from a god born of lies and betrayal?"
—Verenes, priest of Iroas
One glimpse of an elf's home lasts her weeks away in the wild.
Some took to their boats to escape the unfolding nightmare. The remains of their vessels now litter the shores of Nephalia.
"Master the chaotic forces of nature, and you shall master magic."
—Yare-Tiva, warden of Gramur forest




"Indulge the void. Become the void. Consume all you touch."
—Drana, the last bloodchief
Their denial reaches far into your future.
All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.
As Grixis collided with the rest of Alara, the worlds began to hear the hateful whispers of the forgotten dead.
"What am I looking at? Ashes, dead man."






Fish and bear paws—one can't have both.
—Chinese idiom meaning "you can't have it both ways"

They found themselves alive again, still bearing their mortal wounds.

What the gods decree, the mummies enforce.
As tireless as her mount, a skyhunter's vigil is measured in days.
"I might almost pity my enemies—if it wasn't so amusing to watch them die."


"They put bars on these noble beasts and then wonder why werewolves target our towns."



"These roads are desolate and changeable. Follow me, or die in the wastes."
Ghirapur's most celebrated inventors have been immortalized in clockwork.
"Ach! Hans, run! It's the lhurgoyf!"
—Saffi Eriksdotter, last words



The stench in the hovel was overpowering; something loathsome was cooking. Occasionally something surfaced in the thick paste, but my host would casually push it down before I could make out what it was.

"It offers you what you want, not what you need."
—Braids, dementia summoner
Now that he knows a thousand ways of hurting people, his next shamanic quest is to discover a thousand more.
Glare from the snows in the boreal expanse hides its true size.
"These seeds waited faithfully for the sun to rise again. Now, their patience is rewarded."
—Wrenn
"This world was once so much more than the confines of Naktamun."

Stripped of their divinity, the elves of Skemfar channeled their rage and sorrow into bloody brutality.
"Tell you what, you keep the rope."


Before any major undertaking, a Cylian elf seeks the guidance of a visionary to learn the will of the gargantuan ancients.

The shaman rattles not to inspire a battle fury but to drown out the shrieks of those fleeing the Eldrazi.



The words came to the sorcerer's lips but refused to budge any further.


"Forget your human ancestors. You're part of my family now."






Even after the wall was breached in half a dozen places, the phalanxes fought on, standing solidly against the onrushing raiders. Disciplined and dedicated, they held their ranks to the end, even in the face of tremendous losses.


A satyr is bound by nothing—not home, not family, not loyalty.

"A dash of cool water does wonders to clear a cluttered battlefield." —Vibekke Ragnild, *Witches and War*
A haunted fog known as the Nebelgast shrouds the cities along Nephalia's coast.
"So everyone gets what they truly deserve, I will keep watch."

"Give them great meals of beef and iron and steel, they will eat like wolves and fight like devils."
—William Shakespeare, *King Henry V*
A tomb-eye may remain shut for centuries. It opens when it sees a world as twisted and hollow as the wretch beneath its lid.
"Forget it. I'm not getting up today."

"A ruler wears a crown while the rest of us wear hats, but which would you rather have when it's raining?"
—Barrin, *Principia*
Leave the door to the past even slightly ajar and it could be blown off its hinges.





"You think no one is watching, you think you're smart enough to escape, and most foolish of all, you think no one cares."
—Arrester Lavinia, Tenth Precinct

Skysail's strength was also its vulnerability.
It's a mistake to say turtles hide in their shells. They merely need time to contemplate how best to bite your head off.
When necessary, myr can override and control any artificial object, as can their creator.

"I doubt any labyrinth minotaurs still live—but then we minotaurs are stubborn beings."
—Onatah, Anaba shaman



Akki shells provided good protection when downhill charging became headlong tumbling.





In light he finds both gift and weapon.
"I know these waters better than you know yourselves."
The leonin thought of the myr as omens, never imagining the sinister fate they foretold.
"The plants said, 'We will fight the stone with root and stem and seed. We are patient. We will win.'"
—Skyshroud myth of the forest

A captured elemental makes for a potent, albeit unstable, power source.
"They share more than their thoughts. We must shatter their link quickly!"
—Hanna, to Orim







"Kinjalli sculpted humans from clay, but the dinosaurs were carved from unyielding stone."
—Itzama the Crested
While hunting aether, a gremlin may ignore other stimuli, including threats to its own life.
The true names of birds are songs woven into their souls.
"Let nothing own the skies but the wind."
—Dejara, Giltwood druid

After trying mudskippers for an afternoon, Scratch decided that crickcarp made the best noise.



Anyone other than a goblin would've gotten only a hand caught in the cookie jar.
Within weeks, more slivers nested in Otaria than ever existed on Rath.


"We traffic in flesh, not souls. Still, it's a shame to let anything go to waste."
—Cevraya, Golgari shaman
With House Voldaren ascendant, some members of the Stromkirk line took it upon themselves to "borrow" from the blood tithes.

Four gray trees and a long, coiling snake. What am I?
—Zhalfirin riddle

"Find the dens of evil and flood them with light."
—Hulo, the Penitent Wanderer

The only ride not explicitly mentioned in the Astrotorium waiver.
At the academy, "show and tell" too often becomes "run and hide."


"It is not a choice I make, to have this guard. It is the choice of my people, and my duty to them."
—Oracle *en*-Vec

"Whew. For a minute, I thought I'd forgotten the gravy boat."
Icatia's once-peaceful towns faced increasing attacks from orcs and goblins as the climate cooled. By the time the empire fell, they were little more than armed camps.




The ritual was normally performed only by horrors and pit spawn. Lesser mages had but one sanity to crack in the casting.

"Who am I to break up a family?"
—Gisa the Mad




"The universe is my instrument, and the song I play upon it is one you are forbidden to hear."

"What is mana but possibility, an idea not yet given form?"
—Jhoira, master artificer

The mysterious purpose of two of the rings had eluded Esper mages—until now.

An army of squirrels is still an army.


"Nature's most raw beauty is the circle: perfect in its continuance, with no break between death and life."
"How does one become a self-taught genius? Naturally, it requires brains."
The Emperor is the greatest psyker in Human history. For thousands of years, he has sat immobile in a palace that spans a continent.
"The face of mediocrity is wrapped in anointed linen. Aspire to a better end."
—Epnokep, vizier of Bontu


Valuing scholarship above all else, the inhabitants of the Ivory Tower reward those who sacrifice power for knowledge.

As she triggered yet another trap, Chira realized that what she thought was the goblin word for "easy" probably wasn't.


Will players understand that the creature is being crushed by two parentheses? Not a chance.

"You know it to be false, but when its claws find you, what you know won't matter much at all."
—Pol Jamaar, illusionist
"Choices belong to those with the luxuries of time and distance. We have neither. I recommend we proceed with the plan to destroy all shrines of the kami."
—Lady Azami, letter to Sensei Hisoka

"Sangrite is the dragon's beating heart. Little wonder, then, that so many fools' chests burst trying to contain it."
—Sarkhan Vol
The Lords of Change are Tzeentch's greatest servants. The most powerful of them wield fragments of his power over destiny.
Some fiendish mage had created a horrifying wall of living flesh, patched together from a jumble of still-recognizable body parts. As we sought to hew our way through it, some unknown power healed the gaping wounds we cut, denying us passage.


Though it was laid to waste by the brothers, many schools of magic trace their origins to the College of Lat-Nam, including the first Tolarian Academy.


As Emrakul's influence radiated across Innistrad, evacuation from Kessig's remote villages became increasingly difficult.
"The most unexpected weapon that a monster can wield is kindness."
—*Tales of the Ozolith*
"Sure, I hear things. I hear plenty. But how am I to talk with this parched throat?"
With great power comes great risk of getting yourself killed.
Better places poured prismatic dreams into the world, rendering it anew.

"Yawgmoth's corpse is a wound in the universe. His foul blood seeps out, infecting the land with his final curse."
—Lord Windgrace

"I cannot teach you their brand of magic, but I can teach you how to defend against it."
—Tavalus, priest of Korlis

"He can cause a lot of pain and do it with no fuss. That's all good, but I just wish he didn't do it to us!"
—Ku-Ku, akki poet
Theologians now believe the Ancestor was another divine form of Serra.





The destruction of Markov Manor made the surviving members of the bloodline more dangerous.




Mirri did not have time to think, only to react.

"Until my last breath, I will defend the realm."
Mouths and wings beyond numbering, but a single mind to guide them.

"This city could certainly use a bit more divine intervention."
—Inspector Jillard

The mapmaker scowled. He sighed, unrolled his parchment, and painted a large black blob where the Eternal Meadow was once marked.
"There's only one way to be sure it's really dead."

"I specialize in missing manuscripts, pilfered poetry, and lifted letters."



Elves of the immaculate class weave flora into living creatures—sometimes to endorse an elite warrior, sometimes to create a breathing work of art.




Reinforcements . . . or refreshments?
"For its time as a mortal, Anger chose a shell of boiling rock."
—*Scroll of Beginnings*


"Roots find their way through rock, and even mountains must give way to new growth."
—Nissa Revane
"I am my life's work."

"Don't laugh. It works."
"So many choices. Shall I choose loathing, hate, or malice today?"
—Eliza of the Keep
A paladin's steed is a celestial spirit in animal form.

Viashino thrashes keep iguanars as hunting companions, giving them wounded captives as playthings.


Gruul territorial markings need not be legible. The blood, snot, and muck used to smear them are unmistakably Gruul.
Mycosynth grew unfettered beneath the black lacuna, metastasizing into a matrix of noxious energy.
The ground erupted in time with the hedron's thrum, a dirge of the last days.
"Infused with autochthon blood for size and hellion cells for speed, the ragworm is perfect for clearing the undergardens of both rats and vagrants."
—Yolov, Simic bioengineer


"I thought the wind was ushering me to my final destination, but it lifted me to my feet and I fought on."
—Idrus, war priest of Thune




"Every fallen tree nourishes a thousand seedlings."
—Autumn Willow to Baron Sengir

A master of tactics, the Lord of Atlantis makes his people bold in battle merely by arriving to lead them.
"I know a ranger that thought to make a cloak of its hide. He ended up losing an eye for his trouble."
—Raf Gyel of the Quiver of Kessig

"What do you have that I cannot obtain?"
—Mairsil, the Pretender







Those who do not learn from their mistakes are bound to relive them.





Its frill inspired the design of efficient aether collectors.

"Stop thinking like an artificer, Urza, and start thinking like a father!"
—Rayne, chancellor of the Tolarian Academy
Don't be fooled by their looks. Think of them as little knives with wings.


The stairs lead down in both directions.

The best engineers recognize when a problem has already been solved.
"Union may be strength, but it is mere blind brute strength unless wisely directed." —Samuel Butler
It takes a remarkable cleric to turn a group of healers into a hospital.
Every rider leaves The Fluctuator happy—most because they're thrilled to still be alive.






"As the sun sets to make way for dawn, so we turn to darkness to bring about the coming salvation."
With carrion a rarity in the Broken Lands, the hyenas that stalk the deserts hunt in packs.



"Ruhan would never agree to such terms."
—Ruhan of the Fomori
"You won't need the sword drills, your shields, or my blessing. You'll fight for Sunhome with the truth in your heart."
—Aurelia

"Leaves more room for the big ones to fight in, you know."
—Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
In a culture of beauty, the most beautiful are worshipped as gods.

Ask your query and be on your way. Just don't look her in the eye.
Though Shadowmoor's monster-haunted wilds beckon, she never leaves her post.
"Sven felled the elf with an arrow through the chest, but moments later, the corpse rose with a sneer to fight again."
—*Longbeard Saga*




"All armies prefer high ground to low and sunny places to dark."
—Sun Tzu, *Art of War*, trans. Giles
It teaches *you* to play dead.

「同僚たちは血の時代の野蛮さを避難しているが、俺は無限に続く戦争の魔法から学べることは多いと思っている。」
——シルバークイルの学部長、エムブローズ
"Keep your herons and shrews! You will find nothing in the moon, for the moon is a lie! It has told me so!"
Too many wizards spoil the spell, but too many spells spoil the wizard.
—Sign on entry to arcane lab
"It was a strange morning. When we awoke, we found our trees transformed. We didn't know whether to water them or polish them."
—Pulan, Bant orchardist
"Bring forth the dead, their skull-grins and rattle-bones. We will feast upon their wailing ghosts."
—Silumgar, translated from Draconic
"If you had just one wish, what would it be? Gold, or angel song? Finding a lost love, or finding your way back home? Let me sing a song about one wish that came true . . ."
—Ellywick Tumblestrum

The ingenuity of goblins, the depravity of demons, and the smarts of sheep.

"The East Wind, an interloper in the dominions of Westerly Weather, is an impassive-faced tyrant with a sharp poniard held behind his back for a treacherous stab."
—Joseph Conrad, *The Mirror of the Sea*




"The stone whispers to me of dragon's fire and darkness. I wish I'd never pried it from the figurehead of that sunken Keldon longship."
—Isel, master carver
The Soul of the World has returned.
The Fountain had stood in the town square for centuries, but only the pigeons knew its secret.

"We must rely on our own knowledge, not on the dogma of the seekers or the mutterings of the sphinxes."
—Tullus of Palandius


"A key only unlocks a door. Its wielder must choose whether to cross the threshold."
—*Hurkyl's Metaphysics, vol. II*
Plague and death wrapped in one convenient package.
Unpredictable as the sea itself, Water Elementals shift without warning from tranquility to tempest. Capricious and fickle, they flow restlessly from one shape to another, expressing their moods with their physical forms.





"The educated mind is heavy with lore and knowledge. It's also the most likely to collapse under its own weight."
—Ambassador Laquatus


"The heat in our hearts sometimes rises to the surface."
—Valduk, keeper of the Flame

"Improvement is a consequence of practice."
—Stitcher Geralf
"I have hidden from the machinations of Zhalfir for centuries. Why should I join *your* campaign?"
—Jolrael



"In times of war the victors rarely save their best for last."
—Gerrard of the Weatherlight




"Agresto, bring up the rear . . . Agresto?"
—Sergeant Dremark Eigen, last words






"Oh, *that's* what that switch does!"






"How truly vast this city must be, that I have traveled so far and seen so much, yet never once found the place where the buildings fail."
"Our unity unmasks your deceit."

Knowledge demands sacrifice.
Lightning tethers souls to the world.
—Kor saying
Beware anything born among the dead.
—Tolarian saying

The first aven scout squad returned from Krosa with disturbing stories. The second returned with disturbing casualties.

From the jagged peaks of Stensia, to the tangled woods of Kessig, to the bogs of Nephalia, the Gavony Riders prepare for all terrain.


"Her voice is disaster, painful and final."
—Matoc, lavamancer

"I can tell you what you wish to know. But first, there is the matter of my fee."


Nature doesn't walk.
Vulshok shamans could never keep them alive for more than a few seconds, yet those few seconds seemed to be enough.

The vast network of predation on Jund has actually caused some strange creatures to adapt to being eaten.
"The mists coalesced into silent warriors. We charged them and broke through their lines, only to see them swirl and re-form behind us."
—Golas Mahr, black knight


Sphinxes drink from the mystic meres of Serra's realm, where their keen eyes watch reflections of what is and what is yet to come.
"Disa is dead, and I am left. I shall allow no others to succumb to this pestilence."
—Kolbjörn, High Honored Druid

Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.
The songs of angels are perceived not as words in the ears but as stirrings in the soul.
Sarkhan gazed on the world around him, the dragons sweeping through its skies, and joy kindled like a fire in his soul.

Each of the twenty-three winds of Esper is named and chronicled, and every possible interaction with the flow of magic is exhaustively detailed.
Trained with the aid of rhystic magic, they become uneasy in its absence.

"How have I angered nature that she would imprison me in a labyrinth of grass?"
—Kasib ibn Naji, Letters

The silk of the archweavers adds structural integrity to otherwise unstable Izzet building sites.






"What size advantage? They never even see me coming."
"We leonin have come to rule the plains by taking to the skies."
—Raksha Golden Cub
"This is the light of Avacyn. Even in her absence she offers us hope."
—Radulf, priest of Avacyn

"I'd rather fight on foreign soil. That way, if I lose I can blame it on the terrain."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*

In a hobgoblin's view of the world, the weak owe tribute and fealty to the strong.
The Skelle raise scorn poles in conquered villages—cursed totems of wood and bone that sap survivors of physical strength and the will to fight back.
Its mood changes with the weather, and vice versa.
The undead of Grixis are fueled by their hatred of the living.

"The admixture of bitterwort in the viral brew has produced most favorable results."
—Phyrexian progress notes
It knows what you are planning, and does not approve.




Godtrackers found new pantheons of beast-gods beyond Naya's borders.




Man's best fungus.



A deafening roar arose as the fury of an enormous vertical river supplanted our serenity. Eddies turned into whirling geysers, leveling everything in their path.
A knight's devotion to their steed goes only so far.

"Your downfall was not your ignorance, your weakness, or your hubris, but your warm blood."
—Heidar, Rimewind master
The ever-watchful center of a growing web of eyes.
"You should have seen the look on *both* their faces."
—Morkamp, Lambholt innkeeper


"Allow zealous flames to light your path and the glory you seek will be revealed."
—Hazoret, god of zeal

"Is this twisted ceremony simply a mockery of the human rite, or has Olivia fallen for her own charade?"
—Sorin Markov




"Step 1: I believe in a power and toughness greater than myself . . . ."

"My children will rule over all!"


The vapors infiltrate every crevice, poison every lung, and snuff out every life.



"In our war Heliod gave mortals some favor, yet other times he withheld aid. Are we still no more than game pieces to him?"
—Polyxene the Doubter
You see your next disguise in every stranger's smile.

"The veil of death hides little from our kind."
Even he didn't know what he was until he felt his skin shifting and splitting, his mind overtaken by a chaos of whispers.
Nothing beats the lizard's shear power.
The Icatian army easily repelled early surprise attacks by the Orcs on border towns like Montford.
The brutish mage's version of thinking.



"I'm fresh out of mercy today. Why don't you ask Sparky here for forgiveness?"
"What do you have that I cannot obtain?"
—Mairsil, the Pretender
"In a healing world I write—I, who will never be healed. Let my last gift be one of memory: from a thousand lost thoughts, choose one, and remember my name."



"The flame paints a bright wheel on the sky, then shifts into a stabbing spark. The enemy falls; the smoke of victory rises."
—"Legends of the Firedancer"
"It's cold in the grave, and the dead crave your warmth. Who are you to deny them?"
—Strava, Dimir mage
"My battle cry reaches ears far keener than yours."
—Saidah, Joraga hunter


"I have my faith, and I have my prayers. But if push comes to shove, I've also got a little something extra."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran Priest


"The floor of the sea is paved with the shattered remnants of vessels that navigated its surface unwelcomed."
—Thassa, god of the sea




The angel remembers her past lives like dreams. Her song held up meadows. Her blade drove back darkness. Her wings carried her across the ages.
Her wings are the prayers of the devoted; her sword, the despair of the vile.


"Sing, beauty. Sing for death, and for the dead."
—Ashiok
"If that brain can't figure out the secret of the serum, then add more brains."
—Rhmir, Hand of the Augur

The best techniques outlive their creators.

Few take kindly to being put in their place, especially if their place is the grave.

"Everything around here has cut a deal with gravity."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*


Only a matter as vital as destroying Volrath could bring together the reclusive Kor people.


Inspiration leads to design.
It lights up the sky, beckoning enemies only to repel them.




She yearned to walk on dry land so she might take her vengeance there.

"You have not died until I consent."

As the sun grew cold in the realm, the statue grew warm.
It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says,
Left to itself, nature overflows any container, overthrows any restriction, and overreaches any boundary.
"Protect our mother in her womb."

All Mirri wanted to do was rest, but she couldn't ignore a nagging suspicion as she followed Crovax's skulking form.



The storm rages and the earth breaks.
Even the landscape turned against Sarsour, first rising up and pelting him, then rearranging itself so he could no longer find his way.

"The land putrefied at its touch, turned into an oily bile in seconds."
—Radiant, archangel



The form of the sigil is just as important as the sigil itself. If it's carried on a medallion, its bearer is a master. If it's tattooed on the body, its bearer is a slave.


Once guarded by the Knights of the Reliquary, the tower stands now protected only by its own remoteness, its dusty treasures open to plunder by anyone.
"The land shall beg for drink and curse the rain that follows."
—Oracle *en*-Vec

After years of training, the Druid becomes one with nature, drawing power from the land and returning it when needed.
Grixis is a world where the only things found in abundance are death and decay. Corpses, whole or in part, are the standard currency among necromancers and demons.
Hazoret's disappointment at initiates who fail their final trials can manifest in terrible ways.


"You can always tell who's new from the screaming."
—Tinua, Skirsdag cultist



"In its time of hardship, all of Zendikar cries out in pain. Are you listening?"
On countless frontier worlds, below silica sand, blasted chalk, or bubbling marsh, slumbering Necrons await.
Percival's clothes itched and his dinner was unpleasantly wriggly, but the kobold looked like he was having the time of his life.

Even more than carrion, they crave the last words of the dying.


"Our cause will ripen in the fertile flesh of the unworthy."
—Sheoldred, Whispering One
The mating habits of Treefolk, particularly the stalwart Ironroot Treefolk, are truly absurd. Molasses comes to mind. It's amazing the species can survive at all given such protracted periods of mate selection, conjugation, and gestation.


"I will flay the skin from your flesh and the flesh from your bones and scrape your bones dry. And still you will not have suffered enough."
—Greven *il*-Vec, to Gerrard
Eyes and arrows trained ever skyward.
The Lords of Change are Tzeentch's greatest servants. The most powerful of them wield fragments of his power over destiny.
"It was a strange morning. When we awoke, we found our trees transformed. We didn't know whether to water them or polish them."
—Pulan, Bant orchardist

"No. No! Not the sarcophagus . . . Khorne damn you, you disloyal curs. JUST KILL ME!"
—Kalos the Ravager

"First through the Riftstone was Genesis—and the world was lifeless no more."
—*Scroll of Beginnings*




Mood: "You can't keep us locked away anymore. To battle!"

"Time and space are just new battlefields to be mastered."
Waterways carve their routes through the land to reflect the paths the aether streams cut through the clouds.

"Ixalli's fertile rays enliven us all. Each of us is a testament to the sun's strength and love."
—Chitlati, Lightning Rider
"Just wait till I get my Krark-Clan Ironworks, Genesis Chamber, and Grinding Station. Oh yeah, and a second Myr Retriever."

"Vodalian rank is displayed by the colors and patterns of their skin. Beware the color red; that is the badge of the empress's favor."
—Corbio, pearl diver
"After his death, monks spent ten years transcribing the tattoos from Reki's body and gathering stories from those who spoke with him. Thus the volume you hold was written."
—*The History of Kamigawa*





"Heroism is more than a single act; it is hundreds of small decisions, made every day, in pursuit of a heroic cause."
"Such an adorable face!"
"So like men are they: a hardened shell with fragile flesh beneath."
—Selenia, dark angel
"I will trade life for life with the insurgents. Our resources, unlike theirs, are limitless."
—Davvol, Evincar of Rath




The staccato clatter of its metal claws on pavement is unmistakable.

"Cruelty? No. This is necessity."
—Kaervek
"I feed my hatred to the righteous and they join my crusade."
—Akroma, angelic avenger

Many whose faith was destroyed by Avacyn turned to the only angel who remained true to humanity.
The drake flew true. The arrow flew truer.

A single fear unleashes a torrent of nightmares.


One day, it will produce a clown that can itself produce a clown. Until that day, it will not rest.


"We'll scale these cliffs, traverse Brittle Bridge, and then fight our way down the volcanic slopes on the other side."
"Isn't the shortest route through the canyon?"
"Yes."
"So shouldn't we—"
"No."
"Knight Kathryn closed her eyes, bracing herself for the end. When she opened them again, she stood triumphant over her foe."
—Thadus the Healer, *Memoirs*


Fire finds its form in the heat of the forge.

"No owners allowed."
—Sanctuary sign
"Don't just win the game. Win the crowd."
—Moriana, Mage Tower coach
Designed by Mike Neumann

The left head keeps the right head starved as motivation to track new prey.
Dragons are extinct on Tarkir, but Abzan magic still emulates their endurance.

"If only our jails were as secure."
—Arrester Lavinia, Tenth Precinct
"A blessing is not a gift. It is a duty."
"Those who can't survive are of no consequence."
—Tsabo Tavoc
"Let them decry me for burning the dead. I'm not giving those ghoulcallers any more fuel for their madness."
Sounds of life beckon many a restless soul.
"They exist only so long as the living take no notice."
—Kifimbo, Shadow Guildmage

Goblin lessons include the 2,071 tips for survival. Frek only remembered 2,070.
"I don't care if it's an all-powerful relic or a street vendor's lucky charm. If it brings you courage, wear it."
—Saheeli Rai
Though Dominaria's queenless slivers lack a single purpose, in some the instinct for self-sacrifice remains extremely strong.

"The beneficent council deems you worthy of favor. They hope this doesn't provoke envy from your peers."

The wastes spread as quickly as the wind.
The shaman rattles not to inspire a battle fury but to drown out the shrieks of those fleeing the Eldrazi.

Good dogs stay by your side until the end. Great dogs leave to bring back aid.

"The benefits of peace far outweigh the pride of Generals."
—King Darien of Kjeldor




To the Krark Clan, every artifact has a trigger and a barrel.
"The awestruck birds gazed at Wonder. Slowly, timidly, they rose into the air."
—*Scroll of Beginnings*

"It's delightful, the things their owners reveal when they think no one is listening."

Magical etchings turned a whittler's tool into a wolfhunter's weapon.
The lacerators cut themselves before each hunt. They must feed before the sun rises or bleed to death.
The void is without substance but cuts like steel.
Llanowar covers a million square miles, yet nobody enters the forest without the elves knowing it.
Near the Krosan border, farmers keep watch over their fields lest the sod get up and wander away.


Like many Izzet creations, weirds are based on wild contradictions yet somehow manage to work.

Death free throat from thirst, mouth from speech, feet from earth.
—Kor requiem
Born with wings of light and a sword of faith, this heavenly incarnation embodies both fury and purity.
There's no higher honor in Phyrexia than dying for Yawgmoth's glorious vision.

2020 Legacy Champion

"In times of need, the forest creates its own protectors."
—Vivien Reid


Some curiosities are best left alone.


Driven mad by the fall of Argoth, the Citanul Druids found peace only in battle.

"You might have pleaded your case with my queen earlier. Now I am here, and it is far too late."

The mating habits of Treefolk, particularly the stalwart Ironroot Treefolk, are truly absurd. Molasses comes to mind. It's amazing the species can survive at all given such protracted periods of mate selection, conjugation, and gestation.



"I can feel the strength of the entire forest."
—Gerrard
All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.

An innumerable pack is concealed in a single reflection.

Shiny polished silver can ward off many creatures, but it attracts others.

"Mandatory lockets enable the tracking of all Senate personnel for improved security and efficiency."
—Dovin Baan
The most dangerous thing an artificer can do is believe an invention is perfect.
"You've begun to understand the hedrons' true purpose," said Ugin. "The Eldrazi can be imprisoned."
"And how did that work out last time?" asked Jace.





"I have yet to find my equal."
The arrival of the Planar Bridge caused eddies in the aether, creating some entirely new species while transforming others.

To gain audience with the hegemon, one must bring a riddle she has not heard.

When the molten rains fall, entire landscapes melt and flow away in rivulets of fire.
It herds souls toward eternal torment.
Bogardan is a land as volatile as the creatures who live there.

A flickering beacon of righteous corruption.


It knows one fundamental truth: bodies belong in graves.


Nothing is sacred to rats. Everything is simply another meal.
In front of every great wizard is a doomed apprentice.
"Far too many soldiers have died in their beds."
—Telim'Tor
When the kavu emerged from their ancient nests, food chains long dormant became vibrant again.



The vedalken order their Neurok sentinels to watch over the shores of the Quicksilver Sea, as if they know of intruders yet to come.
It lights up the sky, beckoning enemies only to repel them.
They hide in dreams and whispers and faraway thoughts.

Its wings shimmer with dreams absorbed from its enemies.

Members of the elite Moorish Cavalry are very particular about their mounts, choosing only those whose bloodlines have been pure for generations.
Grixis is a world where the only things found in abundance are death and decay. Corpses, whole or in part, are the standard currency among necromancers and demons.
Each bronze disk on its harness is an offering from a young Temur hunter, a sign of respect to the spirits of the wild.
"On vile wings and bloody wind, the swarm will rise."
—Skyclave inscription
Goblins journey to the sacrificial peaks in pairs so that the rare survivor might be able to relate the details of the other's grisly demise.
A symbol of sagacity in bewildering times.




"The other guilds think they're untouchable. It's time we brought them back down to earth."
—Ghut Rak, Gruul guildmage
"One's blade is only as sharp as one's conviction."
—Ajani Goldmane


Rakdos cultists are her best customers. They never flinch at pain and are seldom good at math.


It's futile to fight something you can see only in the corner of your eye.
Within seconds, the nim was consumed in blinding sunfire. Afterwards, only a puddle of molten iron remained.





"Hard to imagine," mused Hanna, stroking the petal, "such a lovely flower inspiring such greed."

It grew with a terrible swiftness.



A sign of battle, the Vultures circle and wait for the victorious to depart.


As it wandered Shadowmoor, it did not remember its crime—only its shame.
"Don't arrest him—enlist him!"
—Commander Yaszen




"Take up the quill, and feel your future flow into the runes."


Esper mages devised their weapons to be so devastating that war seemed unnecessary.
"Amazing, isn't it, how scraps can come together to create such a wonder?"
—Stitcher Geralf

Elementals are ideas given form. This one is the idea of "smashitude."


"I assure you, no one fails my course more than once."
—Embrose, Silverquill dean
"On a world where time was torn asunder, destruction ruled the minds of all."
—*Multiversal Metahistories*

"We move because the earth does."
—Bruse Tarl, Goma Fada nomad




Even miles away, if you put your ear to the sewer vents, you can hear the screams and the tempestuous laughter.
Goblin mountaineer, barely keeps his family fed.

"You are beneath contempt. Your lineage will be forgotten."

The balance of nature dictates that one day humans will be stepped on by bugs.

Do not fear the lightning. Fear the one it obeys.
A skullkeeper is the first to arrive after the palace archers strike down intruders, probing their brains for choice bits of knowledge.
Plague and death wrapped in one convenient package.


"Give up these unnatural weapons, these scrolls. Heart and mind and fist are enough."
—Zyd, Kamahlite druid

Who you are constantly runs toward who you will be.
Each flower identical, every leaf and petal disturbingly exact.
The harmony of the glorious is a dirge to the wicked.

Acolytes of the lost Lord Windgrace fight to keep Urborg relics out of Cabal hands.
Her feathers cut the air, as sharp as they are silent.
The glorious city of Pachatupa is the center of the Sun Empire, and Tocatli, the emperor's palace, is its glowing heart.



"We hold sacred the powers of light and life. Truth and honor are our greatest weapons."
—Alabaster creed



Freshly promoted to "first rock," Zaz was eager to make an impact.




"Death is no excuse for disobedience."
—Liliana Vess


Paranoia has driven some Kessig communities to hunt down anything—and anyone—that travels through their woods.
"My quest? Why, to marry Ayara. Or die trying."
Imitation is the sincerest form of treachery.
Chaos renegades always seek to deface and destroy effigies of Imperial piety, replacing them with blasphemous symbols of the Ruinous Powers.
All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.
The massive Argivian attack on their rooted kindred was a declaration of war to the treefolk.

The Izzet signet is redesigned often, each time becoming closer to a vanity portrait of Niv-Mizzet.
His words echo every roar, screech, and howl of the wilds.

"What wizards upset, the land soon rights."
—Gemma, Willow Priestess
"Yes, I think 'toast' is an appropriate description."
—Jaya Ballard, task mage
"Fighting without an army is called a duel, and you'll lose a duel if your enemy comes expecting a war."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*
For years, the five families ruled New Capenna in uneasy peace, and the city prospered.
"Relent, and you may transcend your situation."
—Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen
Grixis is a world where the only things found in abundance are death and decay. Corpses, whole or in part, are the standard currency among necromancers and demons.


A productive warren requires a good deal of prodding.
The fire spell stuttered and broke. Its pieces reached Teferi out of rhythm, meaningless.
"Froggy fighter at the gate.
Draw your sword and meet your fate."
—Traditional children's rhyme




No body is ready for this kind of power.
"Even gods shall kneel."
—Nicol Bolas


The Roil redraws the world as it passes, leaving only the hedrons unchanged.
"Finally, the principles of corpse animation applied to bloodless materials!"
—Ludevic, necro-alchemist
"Body and spirit are sworn enemies. They will take any excuse to be rid of each other."
—Tariel, Reckoner of Souls
"Divine gifts are granted to those who are worthy."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest
"Six consecutive life sentences" takes on a new meaning when necromancy is involved.
"Here in Fyndhorn, where Freyalise's power is strongest, the forest has its own opinion."
—Laina of the Elvish Council




Yavimaya lights the quickest path to battle.
Most Uprisers augment their bodies for speed, strength, or protection, but a few just want to be one with the music.


"I'll wring out your tiny mind like a sponge."
—Urborg witch

Conjured from the bowels of hell, the fiery wall forms an impassable barrier, searing the soul of any creature attempting to pass through its terrible bursts of flame.
"If Yawgmoth meant Squee's immortality as a curse, no one ever told Squee."
—Karn
"Do you hunt the yetis of the high peaks, stripling? They are as fierce as the bear that fears no foe and as sly as the mink that creeps unseen. You will be as much prey as they."
—Nitula, the Hunt Caller








The Gruul aren't satisfied with just smashing things. They continue smashing other things with the things they just smashed.



A good Gruul shaman can work a whole clan into a frenzy. A great one will wait until the enemy's nearby.
Sharper than wind, lighter than air.
Though she is rightly feared, there are relatively few tales of her deeds in battle, for few survive her raids.
"A slayer gets by on wits and reflexes."
—Higa, slayer-captain of Gatstaf

"The infection has spread farther than we could glimpse from the heights of Taj-Nar."


"Petals within petals within petals, tadpole. The truth lurks below an opulence of illusion."
—Neerdiv, fallowsage


Driven by an insatiable hunger, gremlins never cease feeding. They can destroy a lifetime of work in just a few moments.


Is there a greater promise than the glory of the sunrise?



Good riddance.

They are the first to greet dissenters on their journey into exile.

"Will not the mountains quake and hills melt at the coming of the darkness? Share this vision with your enemies, Lim-Dûl, and they shall wither."
—Leshrac, Walker of Night

"Unless you're quicker, I wouldn't snicker."


It feeds on shadows, fear, and blood.
"When it oscillated above a particular frequency, the stone induced acute listlessness in several researchers."
—Consulate engineer's log


It has the strength of seven men. In fact, it used to be seven men.


Those who hear her go mad with inspiration.
"What do you want to be, now that you're grown up?"
—Yolov, Simic bioengineer

Cut it down, bury it in snow, put it to the torch. The rose will still bloom again.


Barbarians equate courage with the ability to endure pain.


The Brazen Thunder, foremost of the bloodcrusher legions, are named for the sound they make as they ride into battle.




Where sovereignty and flesh converge.




Its favorite treats are candied hands and sweet hearts.
A symbol of what Mirrodin once was and hope for what it will be again.
"They're searching in the same direction we are. And for the same thing, I'll wager."

"Wirewood cannot hide great size. Only with speed and skill can we survive here."
The most dangerous place to be in Kessig is alone.
Hobgoblins do not fear death, for those who fall in battle have gained glory eternal.
Teferi stepped calmly into the fray. Suddenly the sun paused in the sky and the werewolves' snarls froze on their faces.
"We are free. It is our duty to live well."
A blazing sun that never sets.


"What's the worst that could happen?"



"The jaw bone's connected to the skull bone. The skull bone's connected to the . . . uh . . . hook thingy."
—Garl, sticher's assistant


"It's time to put the 'die' in 'diameter!'"
—Flaky the Irrational




Forked tails rustled. Talons clicked. A lone sliver streaked overhead like jagged lightning, and the hive thundered.
When he reaches for his key ring, you should be running for the exit.

"The ravings of the mad are laced with eldritch knowledge."
For the first time in his life, Grakk felt a little warm and fuzzy inside.











Godo trained their muscles and honed their skills, but he left their hearts wild and empty.
An explorer's reward is a view of tomorrow's possibilities.
Knight-Inquisitors of Saint Raban delve deep into mysteries best left unexplored.

By the time Mishra was defeated, no mage was foolish enough to rely heavily on walls.
"Stay in the light. I don't know what lurks in those shadows, and I'd like to keep it that way."

A casual glance into a dark corner may be your last.
In the cold corridors of the undercity, misinformation unfurls from Duskmantle like a spreading stain.
|su,porkFst,GEyts,LecchuZFFGKMEDEauDut. |be,Gyyts,pFnenBePe,Qe,fyrshuZFGKDugSeDZnepyt.
They'll attack whatever's in front of them—as long as you tell them where that is.

From a marvel of magical mechanization to a smoking stack of scrap in one easy step.
A fragile cocoon of dreaming will.

"If they try to storm your palace, you must become the storm."
—*Handbook of Imperial Spellcraft*

When setting a snare, success depends not on the quality of the trap, but the quality of the bait.


"It's a lifeless ruin of some long-lost race. What is there to fear?"
—Commissar Gadholm
"Honor those who honor Fyndhorn above themselves."
—Kolbjörn, High Honored Druid
"You old, immobile clod! If I could stuff your doltish head with knowledge, I'd do it just so someone else could fully comprehend what your stubbornness has cost me!"
—Bruse Tarl, Goma Fada nomad
"Who will be the hero of my tale?"
"Your arrogance is my best weapon."

When Selesnya missionaries moved into the Shanav Quarter, they faced scorn, ridicule, and ultimately martyrdom.
Torching Krosa would be pointless. It grows faster than it burns.
"My Aesthir is my most trusted ally. We fight as one and live as one, and we will die as one."
—Arna Kennerüd, Skyknight

"If I fight, I might step on a butterfly. That would be sad."
—Krowg of Qal Sisma


"We've bred out the shortcomings of the species' natural form and replaced them with assets of our own design."
—Momir Vig
The Obscura's Cloud Spire dominates the skyline, its eye a beacon of progress that sees all.


It's pointless to hold on when you have nothing to hold on with.

"Since the last sliver arrived, even our mightiest relics splinter into shards as soon as we bring them against the hive."
—Llanach, Skyshroud ranger





"If it were merely lethal, that would be sufficient. The art, however, is in maximizing the suffering it causes."
—Liliana Vess
Mage-students who see beauty in patterns and equations choose Quandrix, the college of numeromancy.


"Pathetic. You might as well have protected your treasures with a paper box and some string."
Llanowar has seven elfhames, or kingdoms, each with its own ruler. Their palaces are objects of awe, wonder, and envy.


The might of an army with the restraint of a child.




"I was told these were standard issue. Do I look standard to you?"
A verdant paradox of primal logic.
Marella was delighted. The ball had attracted so many suitors for her daughter, including that handsome stranger. She wondered where the two were now . . . .
The light of hope blinded Pantor to the ills of the world.
For a sharp second, Selenia froze, and Crovax's blade found home, As the angel shattered like glass, Crovax felt his mind collapse—the curse had been fulfilled.
"Okay, maybe the 962nd spear will be the one that gets 'em!"
—Kreech, ballista operator




Elves believe the hydra-god Progenitus sleeps beneath Naya, feeding on forgotten magics.
"'The name of it,' said the lady, 'is Excalibur.'"
—Sir Thomas Malory, *Le Morte d'Arthur*
"The light of a felidar's horns can give even an Eldrazi pause."
—Zarra, lullmage
The Joraga elves never need ask a troll to leave their territory. They merely grant it their combined strength, and it can't resist embarking on a merry rampage.


It's said that death mourns every soul it claims and lovingly crafts a mask for each of the departed.


Whenever the Llanowar elves gather the fruits of their forest, they leave one plant of each type untouched, considering that nature's portion.

A drop of humanity for a sea of power.




Their only mistake was giving the bard time to speak.
"The reflection of land interests me far more than its reality."
—Volrath

Amonkhet's dual suns don't allow for the darkness of night, so bats are most active under the gloom of the frequent sandstorms.

"It's a perfect partnership. My village is safe from wolf attacks, and she gets to eat any vampires we catch."
It was created by the Iquati as a living memory—one that objects to being forgotten.


"One sigil awarded for valor, the other awarded for surviving Hellkite's Pass."

"You need a six? All right everyone, she needs a six!"
"You two, cover the alley! You, with me! Eyes on windows, balconies, and rooftops. Who knows what a fish-octopus-crab can do!"
"To comprehend the full answer requires years of temporal study. In short, they were now never born in the first place."
@-Teferi
"Wherever water is lacking, all things suffer."
—Autumn Willow
There's no word in the goblin language for "strategy." Then again, there's no word in the goblin language for "word."


"Oh, thank the angels. It's not a werewolf, just a regular wo—"
—Bruno, Ulvenwald guide, last words
Once a welcoming hub for explorers, Affa became a place of guarded tongues and quick defenses.
His verdict is always guilty. His sentence is always death.

Gods can be appeased. Demons, however . . .
"You cannot fight the storm."



"I was wrong. Zendikar isn't after me. It isn't after any of us. It's not evil or vengeful. It's magnificent . . . but it's in pain."
—Nissa Revane
"Slimefoot, I know I said I wanted to grow our repository of knowledge, but this isn't what I had in mind."
"The best I can offer is a temporary reprieve."
—Belbe
Icatia's once-peaceful towns faced increasing attacks from orcs and goblins as the climate cooled. By the time the empire fell, they were little more than armed camps.
The hardest part of his training is learning not to eat the boar.
"The Reaper bids you rise!"






Most knew of the tower's wizard and gargoyle. Few realized which was guardian and which was master.

Just one can feed a dozen people for a month.
"Now is the hour. Ours is the duty. For victory and family—charge!"
"Whatever faith you have in Serra, she has more in you."
—Lyra Dawnbringer
"They are aberrations who have turned on everything we hold sacred. Let them be cast out."
—Ailheen, Speaker of the Council


Some rooftop gardens attract bees; others capture dragons.
"The cost of your opposition will be extracted from your wits."
—Nekusar, the Mindrazer
"Until I came to the Floating Isle, I never had to oil the servants."
—Baki, wizard attendant
"Mowu was wary that day, as though he sensed the danger ahead."
—Jiang Yanggu's travelogue



He's an oxymoron.


Witherbloom spells often take on the appearance—and personality—of their components.
"It would be a crime to withhold my light from the world."

"As I stepped into the star arch, it all became perfectly clear. Life and death are not opposites, but an endless path, twisting around and back upon itself, never ending and never beginning."
—Zhaer, professor of biophilosophy
Xorns are native to the Elemental Plane of Earth, where gems and rare stones are plentiful. When summoned elsewhere they can be quite destructive in search of food.




Though it was laid to waste by the brothers, many schools of magic trace their origins to the College of Lat-Nam, including the first Tolarian Academy.
"The pain of searing iron and razor edges pales beside the pleasure of performance."
—Judith

"Everyone starts off making garbage. If you finally make something halfway decent, it'll be the best day of your life."
—Nehra, inventor
Its eyes are bigger than its stomach, but its mouth is larger still.
Alongside his wife, Hurkyl, Drafna built a legacy of scholarship that endured for millennia.
"When once winter has ahold,
Not willingly does she withdraw
Her icy touch, wistfully caressing—
The deepened air sleeps its cold."
—Aline Corralurn, "Late Thaw"
Entry 922: There's more to Avacyn's madness . . .
The best defense is a good offense.

"I stand for every cobbler, tanner, and fool in this town—and they stand for me."


When wielded, it begs to be released.
The warping of bodies and souls has become the heart of Yawgmoth's existence.
It can barely feel the sword anymore.






"Fine soldiers guarded the northern front. They waited for two-legged foes and left the skies unheeded."
—General Avitora


In the rapture of his Blood Fast, he destroyed the navigator's tools and steered the ship to shore by faith alone.


"If fear is the only tool you have left, then you'll never control me."
—Xantcha, to Gix

"There's not enough salt in all of Nephalia to wither that thing."
—Ghoulcaller Enslow
"They weren't part of my plan, but Gaea insisted."
—Urza


By the law of church and crown, vampires feed only on the blood of the guilty—those declared heretics, rebels, or enemies of war.

"Don't worry. I'm not going to deprive you of all your secrets. Just your most precious one."
—Liliana Vess

Grixis is a world where the only things found in abundance are death and decay. Corpses, whole or in part, are the standard currency among necromancers and demons.
What's scarier than one of every beast in the forest?
The insectile kraul lurk in the tunnels below street level. Many are loyal to the Golgari Swarm, but others follow their own esoteric caste system.
Though its mind has long since rotted away, it wields a sword with deadly skill.
As a test of calm and compassion, a Jeskai monk softly approaches a grazing sambar and offers it a lotus from his or her hand. If the creature eats, the student ascends to the next level of training.

Alone at the portal, Ertai began his meditation. He realized immediately that he was not alone.
Some who scouted new lands chose to stay.
Every living thing has roots in nature. Sometimes nature gets its roots into you.

Once the hideous disease takes hold, it spreads through both bark and mind.


"The church looks down on binding spirits into armor, but now I can look down on them."
—Dierk, geistmage

Ob Nixilis decided the fastest way to seize control of New Capenna would be to usurp the networks of power already hidden there. Xander's Maestros were the first to fall.

"Too little, too late. The machine is in motion."
—Tezzeret


"It came to rest upon the angel's arm, and then the weight of their gazes fell upon me."
—Aeronaut's journal

The oil created the mycosynth. The mycosynth created New Phyrexia.

"There was a time when the purpose of the church was to heal and protect. I would see that time return."
"Teferi snapped his fingers, and the viashino started clucking like a chicken. Silly, yes, but exactly the thing we needed to break the stifling tension."
—Jhoira, master artificer
"The specimen seems to be broken."
"When one of us prospers, the pride prospers."
—Jazal Goldmane
"I'm not running away! I'm figuring out the best routes."



"They killed my family to deny me a future. They fed on my ancestors to deny me a past."
—Crovax
"Most wizards consider a thunderbolt to be a proper retort."
—Ertai, wizard adept
"They who fall singing the battle hymn of Benalia go not unavenged."
—Adom Capashen, Benalish commander
"Let's do it again!"
—Squee, goblin cabin hand
"If you think the cathedral is impressive, you should see what's down below."
—Teysa




"Don't look at it! Maybe it'll go away!"
—Ib Halfheart, goblin tactician

As it spins, dead voices shriek in an ever-increasing cacophony, rending the mind asunder.

Lucinda didn't know which she enjoyed most: the science, the squirrels, or the maniacal laughter.

"They say the ruins of Sedraxis were once a shining capital in Vithia. Now it is a blight, a place to be avoided by the living."
—Olcot, Rider of Joffik
You'll never miss what you never had.
Beyond pain, beyond obsession and wild despair, there lies a place of twisted power only the most tormented souls can reach.


Warm enough to incubate eggs or incinerate those who would eat them.
"Your presence at the palace this evening is required."
—Letter from Queen Marchesa
Even in the relative safety of the city, there are places best left undisturbed.




"My finest creations are fashioned after the moths of Eiganjo. They fly higher, faster, and more gracefully than any of my own designs."
—Noboru, master kitemaker


The rifted multiverse became a sea of conflicting realities, each peopled by possible versions of every living being.

There may exist powers even greater than Phyrexia.

The Minotaurs of the Hurloon Mountains are known for their love of battle. They are also known for their hymns to the dead, sung for friend and foe alike. These hymns can last for days, filling the mountain valleys with their low, haunting sounds.
After losing several of the devices to midair collisions, Greven forbade moggs from operating telethopters.
Its buzzing is easily mistaken for the hum of a thopter's wings.
"A failure is simply another opportunity for improvement. Just wait until you see what I come up with next."
"The land grows only where the kami will it."
—Dosan the Falling Leaf
The floating city of High and Dry hasn't yet sunk under the weight of gold, but it's not for want of trying.


Fire never dies alone.
They are incubated by swamp gases and cut their teeth on zombie flesh. Serpent warriors are not to be trifled with.
"Your God-Pharaoh has returned."

Your harsh upbringing on the streets of the city left you crafty, resilient, and wise beyond your years.



He has a job to finish, and it's you.
"The Ancestor saved us for a purpose."

The best ideas often come from the worst minds.

Rest sometimes requires the right prompting.

Every branch a crossroads, every vine a swift steed.
"We are many, yet one. We are separate in body, yet speak with a single voice. Join us in our chorus."
Mages seek out the ancient beings known as the Archaics for their boundless knowledge of history and magic, dispensed only in cryptic metaphors.
His soul snared by an angel's curse, Crovax twisted heroism into its purest shadow.

"Down here, things don't stay dead."
—Lavinia

Its wings disturb more than air.


"Here's a nice place we haven't hit yet."
—Captain Rex Nebula

"The day of spirits; my soul's calm retreat/ Which none disturb!"
—Henry Vaughan, "Silex Scintillans"
"There are some qualities—some incorporate things,/ That have a double life, which thus is made/ A type of twin entity which springs/ From matter and light, evinced in solid and shade." —Edgar Allan Poe, "Silence"
"Just as the noble soul calls virtue to itself, the evil soul summons harm."
—Teachings of Eight-and-a-Half-Tails
The goblins laughed as the elf ran away, until more came back.
Throw enough goblins at any problem and it should go away. At the very least, there'll be fewer goblins.


"Only orochi hatched from eggs 'touched by the kami' may become shamans. These days, there are fewer and fewer new shamans being born."



Now etched only with the scars of phyresis.

Jund is a world as cruel as those who call it home. Their brutal struggles scar the land even as it carves them in its image, a vicious circle spiraling out of control.

Its crystalline core refracts light into chaos.

The Izzet signet is redesigned often, each time becoming closer to a vanity portrait of Niv-Mizzet.
"Woodlands and laws. Both grow faster than the Azorius's ability to manage them."
—Suniel the Woodwise
"Your seared flesh will be the first step in your journey to dark enlightenment."

"He's big an' dumb an' ready to fight. A lot like ol' Hornhead here."
—Squee, goblin cabin hand, scouting report
"Hanna would give up her own life before she'd abandon the *Weatherlight*."
—Sisay
Ice exploded into steam in its wake, hissing like a thousand serpents hailing their blazing master.

"Now isn't that better?"
—Olivia Voldaren
The truth came to Kumena like the Great River's torrent: the only way to keep his enemies away from the hidden city was to claim its power for himself.
"On vile wings and bloody wind, the swarm will rise."
—Skyclave inscription

As the dawns break, the manta soars.
Magic is the true artist's medium.
"If it were merely lethal, that would be sufficient. The art, however, is in maximizing the suffering it causes."
—Liliana Vess
When killing five just isn't enough.
"Humbly I bow. Silently I wait. Deeply I listen."

Crippling fear precedes it. A foul stench accompanies it. Death follows in its wake.

Natural evolution is often at odds with industrial progress.


Entire platoons have mysteriously vanished from battle, leaving enemy weapons to slice through empty air.

"Quell your ego and anywhere can be as calm as a hurricane's eye."


The unit of measurement used to chart a cerodon's growth is "persons consumed."
In a stunning act of diplomacy, Yasova Dragonclaw ceded a portion of Temur lands to the Sultai. Her clan protested until they saw she had given the Sultai the breeding grounds of the krushoks. They hadn't realized she had a sense of humor.
"It appears Old One Eye is on the hunt."
—Marneus Calgar
The impact sent the soldiers scattering—then something came out of the crater.
"Eilistraee teaches us that we are not bound by the circumstances of our birth. We all may find beauty and light, if we have the courage to seek them."
"Civilization is a conspiracy to disguise the mutilation of nature."
—Skyshroud elite creed
More stubborn than Drannith's walls.

The walls of the Necron tomb were unbreakable. The ground beneath it was not.




Their whispered prayers rally the nomads better than any war cry could.
"Your God-Pharaoh has returned."
"Worse than watching the cruelest deed is watching it done by your own hand."
—Baihir, Dromoka mage
A dent marks every year of service, and it has as much rust as glory.
The gods of the trials also faced the opportunity to prove themselves worthy.
Stars are like coins dropped into the night: their light buys safe passage.


The viziers serving Rhonas, the god of strength, maintain the menagerie of animals employed during his trial.
Its diet consists of fruits, plants, small woodland animals, large woodland animals, woodlands, fruit groves, fruit farmers, and small cities.
"We were chasing Lim-Dûl when the ridge in front of us suddenly crumbled. I can't believe it was mere coincidence."
—Lucilde Fiksdotter, leader of the Order of the White Shield

"We see clearly the error of your ways. It does not matter that you choose not to."
—Urien of the Lightwielders

Lost loved ones are never truly gone.

Wisdom is a precious heirloom to be passed down faithfully from each generation to the next.
The dry riverbed became a raging torrent, and the Cho-Arrim claimed their prize.




The plating of its horns is a token of honor from Hazoret, who favors creatures with great hearts.
The angels appreciated the offer but politely declined to eat any birdseed.
"Children, where are your parents?"
—Reig, wandering monk, last words
Since the fall of Elturel, they've walked the Sword Coast from Tethyr to Icewind Dale, eyes always on their prey.



The results of the test of strength were: Yes.
"Last time, it tore up the Wilt-Leaf, turned Mistmeadow into a mudhole, and made the river jump its banks. On the bright side, we were eating venison for weeks."
—Donal Alloway, cenn of Kinscaer
Hope of deliverance is scorched by the fire of futility.

Bathing in this spring could cure ailments of body and mind alike.
The message was clear to Sorin—Nahiri had paid Markov Manor a visit.
"Never underestimate the ability of natural forces to adapt to unnatural influences."
—Molimo, maro-sorcerer






"You've failed Gerrard. You've failed the Legacy. You've failed yourself. I can do no more."
—Volrath, to Karn



It despises humans and squirrels and beasts and dwarves and cephalids . . . well, it despises just about everything.

Raptors are clever enough to tear away a hard metal shell to get at the tasty morsel inside.
"You thought only the gods could stop you?"

"There is purity in all things. Even hatred."
—Lieutenant Kirtar
No two draw the same Maro.
They watch for a new master, one more sinister than the last.




"The solution can hide for only so long."
—Urza


"From the volcanoes of Shiv to the Balduvian steppes, I have sought a worthy teacher. At last, I have found one."
Trapped in a realm of dead flesh and scarce hunting, the ravenous wolves of Karfell follow the Dread Marn to warm game.
Few among the living understand just how much of their world is shaped by the ruins of the dead.
The stench of rotting meat lures flies, goblins, and young raptors.


"Why enchant feathers to make them sturdy when we can enchant shields to make them fly?"
—Braenna, cobblesmith
The vedalken saw the myr as toys, unaware of the intelligence lurking behind their empty eyes.






Alara's burning blood cannot be contained by mere earth and stone.


She awoke with blood on her brow, an axe in her hand, and heads at her feet.


Every attack is a test of your defenses. Every hit marks the map of your defeat.

"To control the present we must master the future."
"More than lessons may be gained from the past."
—Halvor Arensson, Kjeldoran priest

"Don't let it fool you. Many of us got our first scars from Syr Nobody."
—Syr Layne, knight of Embereth
Spirits disturbed by ghoulcallers become geists driven by restless anger.

"Silumgar's mind is a dark labyrinth, full of grim secrets and subtle traps."
—Siara, the Dragon's Mouth

Nature bends to the witches' call.
Its ferocity is tempered by patience, knowing it must wait for just the right moment to strike a killing blow.

"I always thought wizards were supposed to have owls or one-eyed cats for familiars, but flaming dinosaurs work, too."

"Knowledge is the greatest tool of the mortal mind, outweighing anything made by mortal hands. Before anything else can exist, the idea must exist."
Perhaps he shuns technology. Perhaps he appreciates nature. Perhaps he doesn't know the difference.
"Be proud, young pup! You've earned your wings. Rise and become the western wind."
—Swift-Arm, Golden-Tail headmaster

Some creatures are bound to the cold by Rimewind magic. Others seek it out, adapted by two thousand years of the Ice. The Boreal, where Heidar's frigid sway is strongest, is home to both.

He answers questions as readily as he asks them, but his answer is always "no."
"Two spells are more than one."
"I like a quick victory. More time to celebrate."


"I do not reject the gods. I reject their authority, their pettiness, and their arrogance."




"Whoever obeys God and His Prophet, fears God and does his duty to Him, will surely find success." —The Qur'an, 24:52

"Night wings sprinkled with dust Of a thousand soldiers dead And a thousand cities fallen."
—Snow-Fur, kitsune poet
Broad as a baobab—and about as smart.
"Through every verdant field, every bough that hangs heavy with fruit, Karametra shows her love."
"Most days the sea is my friend. But only most days."
—Jori En, expedition leader
To truly know a creature, slither a mile in its tentacles.
Entry 653: There's more to Avacyn's madness . . .
"Enter this palace-gate and ask the news
Of greatness fallen into dust and clay."
—*The Arabian Nights*, trans. Burton

A popular game among ogres is to see how many revolutions a head can make before it pops off.
"Kill them all and feed them to the new recruits."
—Crovax, ascendant evincar



Those without a guild signet often display a different form of protection.


The province of Jingzhou was the fulcrum of the three kingdoms. At separate times it was coveted and controlled by the Wu, the Shu, and the Wei.


The elves of Naya were the last to acknowledge the massive shift of mana in their world.


The land was left depleted and empty, an unsettling taste of things to come.

S-U-C-K

"They'll soon become accustomed to wearing skin that is not their own."
—Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite
There were no tombstones in orochi territory. Slain warriors were buried with a tree sapling, so they would become a part of the forest after death.

The party was going strong for nearly an hour past midnight—then all of a sudden it just petered out.

She discovered with great delight that one does not love one's children because they are one's children but because of the friendship formed while raising them.
Gabriel Garciá Márquez


"Debt and death sound so similar, and thrulls are so hard of hearing. Mistakes are inevitable."
—Milana, Orzhov prelate
Benalia has a complex caste system that changes with the lunar year. No matter what the season, the only caste that cannot be attained by either heredity or money is that of the hero.

Wights want the world to resound with echoes of their own cruel hatred.

"Heed the lessons of our time: the forms of water may move the land itself and hold captive the fires within."
—Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran Royal Mage

"We've bred out the shortcomings of the species' natural form and replaced them with assets of our own design."
—Momir Vig


"It was a strange morning. When we awoke, we found our trees transformed. We didn't know whether to water them or polish them."
—Pulan, Bant orchardist

"Big plants not only good for hidin', but full o' tasty bugs, too."
—Squee, goblin cabin hand





"I have a bad feeling about this."


Their arrows are tipped with basilisk eyes and fletched with cockatrice feathers.




"The Rakdos know little of technology, but they definitely know how to push buttons."
—Trivaz, Izzet mage
The weight of death is heavy but not immovable.
The harshest environments offer the greatest opportunities for exploration.

"Commander, we caught the Dimir spy and took her ashes into custody."
—Kramm, Wojek security officer
The Rakdos use it for everything you can think of and plenty more than that.
"As I died, I rejoiced. I would see my family again. But then I woke up back on the battlefield. Back in Kamigawa. Back in hell."
—Kenzo the Hardhearted

|DYsYf,mrodnCWrRvEDk,moACSEDFtLsun,DY,DYrbreLhSEGVABeeCC,t_oZSm. |DY,DeLmhuCsaYzyp/~proLYw,co.
"There's no reason to buy a new one when I've got the tools to fix the one you've got."
—Ripu, repair specialist
It's the only kind of shower goblins will tolerate.



A grave is the safest place to store ill-gotten treasures.
After encountering them, Squee finally lost his appetite for bugs.

The last reliable landmark in Tazeem just walked away.

Kediss loves molten metal, searing flames, and head scratches.
"Thus, Bruk the Skyhammer earned his epithet and won the war, all in one fiery moment."
—*Compendium of Warspells*
"You gotta be pretty smart to live long as me, but not being able to die helps."
Beyond the chaos of Ghirapur lies a vibrant world where aether flows through nature.

"All ends in obliteration—love in hatred, life in death, and light in empty darkness."

"Such a fragile organ, the brain."
—Tojira, swamp queen


Inscribed with runes that predate the dragon, its horns possess their own ancient magic.





"The flies were bothering me."
—Jalira, master polymorphist







"This city will perish, and the Gruul will cheer as the boar-god crushes the last bricks into dust."
—Nikya of the Old Ways

"Ash is our air, darkness our flesh."
—*Phyrexian Scriptures*



"Artifice sundered the world. It shall not again wreak such sorrow."
Once it consecrated the dead. Now it desecrates them.
Their lust for battle was so great that they didn't care their enemies wore their own faces.
During the giant crabs' mating season, Skyshroud nights are filled with the clatter of their skirmishes.




The ultimate answer to intrigue and subtlety.


"Don't dismiss its anger as mindless fury. I assure you, it has purpose."
—Seton, centaur druid

Storm crow lonely, boon for a birder.
Storm crows together, likely a murder.


"War is no picnic," my father liked to say. But the Ants seemed to disagree.
The Slizt Clan's battle cry is an impressive display of fury, defiance, and spit.



Sure-footed, strong-willed, and ill-tempered—and so is the ram.

Don't trust your secrets to the sea.
Tocasia brushed the gears and cogs from the table. There, before two wide-eyed brothers, she began a lesson on raw elemental magic.


"Even the threat of power has power."
—Jeska, warrior adept

"Lesser minds can scarcely imagine such a marriage of necromancy and mind magic."
—Strava, Dimir mage

"The worthy shall cultivate a nimble mind to perceive the glorious wonders that await them."
—Monument inscription
Kommandos differ from usual Orks. They still want to kill you. They just want to surprise you before they do it.
While Urza read books, Mishra learned to read the desert itself.
She monitors the roads in every province, mapping safe routes through hunting grounds and haunting grounds alike.
"The fangren fight without comfort of any kind. We can ask no less of ourselves."
—Tilien, Sylvok partisan


A lie always returns; be careful how you catch it.
Generations of genetic weeding have given rise to the deviously cowardly Ironclaw clan. To say that Orcs in general are vicious, depraved, and ignoble does not do justice to the Ironclaw.
The fall of the evening star never heralds a gentle dawn.

"We are goblinkind, heirs to the mountain empires of chieftains past. Rest is death to us, and arson is our call to war."




"This still doesn't make you the brains of the operation."
—Ghoulcaller Gisa

"I search for a vision of Zendikar that does not include the Eldrazi."
—Expedition journal entry

"We all want to know what's going on in someone else's head. I simply open it up and look."
Everyone loves a good sale.

"Charge bravely. Fight selflessly. Act honorably. Iroas will watch over you."
—Verenis, priest of Iroas
With each defeat, the hive learns. With each victory, it grows.

It takes a huntmaster's eye to discern the contours of mythical prey.
"I knew I'd find a use for all that newt spittle!"

There are many gates into the undercity, but few ways out.
You're only as dead as you feel.
"My scars are my sigils. I will wear them with pride long after you're gone."

Most knew of the tower's wizard and gargoyle. Few realized which was guardian and which was master.
Cervins feed on the mana-rich plants around the star arches, imbuing their bodies with extraordinary grace and vitality.

All the pain of the shattered forest contained in a single drop.




"May these deaths be the first of many."




"But high she shoots through air and light, Above all low delay, Where nothing earthly bounds her flight, Nor shadow dims her way."
—Thomas Moore, "Oh that I had Wings"
The maze-like design embodies the core of Azorius law-strict structure designed to test wills and stall change.

As they fought the Eldrazi, many vampires learned to live among humans. Others were unable to make the adjustment.
"Grand city? No. This is nothing but another squalid cage."

"Sometimes I wonder if our weapons and armor are a step backward."
—Soron, rhox pikemaster
The wise, the righteous, the mighty—the merchant feeds them all.
"The cathars killed my skaabs down below. Let's see how high their swords can reach."
—Ludevic, necro-alchemist



"Ready . . . uh . . . fire!"
The Zhalfirin war triangle represents a trinity of might, faith, and guile.
He wants to watch Ravnica burn, one soul at a time.



For those who reach enlightenment, violence is an unnecessary distraction.

It evades Phyrexians by hiding in the spaces between seconds.

Glory surged through her and radiance surrounded her. All things were possible with the blessing of the Divine.

"I hear the roaring of a wave whose waters are red and whose mists are black."
—Oracle *en*-Vec
It's less "music" and more "straightforward hearing damage."

"Nothing is too broken to mend."
Vedalken eyes don't see the beauty in things. They see only what those things can teach.
"I've told you knuckleheads a hundred times: You can kill 'em here, but bury the bodies somewhere else. If you disturb my prized azaleas again, you'd better dig a second hole for yourself!"

Infinite possibilities contained in a finite space.
"Even land dwellers may call for Emeria's grace in times of need."
—Emeria's Creed

Mirrodin has little weather, but it certainly has lightning.
No matter the timeline, some legends will endure.

While the Dawnhart witches focus their magic on nature and community, other covens consort with devils and twist the elements to their will.
Before any major undertaking, a Cylian elf seeks the guidance of a visionary to learn the will of the gargantuan ancients.
Some Golgari insects live for centuries—and they never stop growing.




Unlike previous conflicts, the war between Urza and Mishra made Dominaria itself a casualty of war.
"Steady, recruit. We fight in the light of justice. We cast no shadow."
Witch, werewolf, and cathar stood shoulder to shoulder around the Sungold Lock at the center of the ritual, ready to stop Tovolar's assault—or die trying.


She sold her soul to four demons for powerful gifts.

Every branch a crossroads, every vine a swift steed.
Fortunately, the reanimation spell just missed the long-dead colony of dung scorpions.



When all is taken away, all are equal.

The kor send their thopter kites to see if the land is in a welcoming mood.

"The best part of a wedding is the cutting of the cake, followed closely by the cutting of the cake decorator."
—Olivia Voldaren
The more unlikely the victory, the more memorable the success.
As many attackers were dazzled by the wall's beauty as were halted by its force.
Her song plucks the strings of the storm, shifting wind and storm into a harmony that will carry her ship to safety.
Torching Krosa would be pointless. It grows faster than it burns.
"Fear of the unknown can be a wonderfully innocent thing, relatively speaking."
—Anowon, the Ruin Sage

"Why so slow, why so slow? Hurry up! You never know what you'll find."

"If it means that people can live in freedom, yeah, I'll keep watch."
"It is the art of convincing someone to live."
—Orim, Samite healer



The Sanctum Seekers were the first of the knightly orders to cross the sea and are still the most zealous.
Let moss grow over gargoyles
—Gavony saying meaning "forget painful memories"
An emblem of a secret guild, the Dimir insignia is seen only by its own members—and the doomed.
First among equals.
The oil created the mycosynth. The mycosynth created New Phyrexia.
"War is the crucible of leadership."
—Rashida Scalebane
"Combat is a form of worship, the clash of steel a solemn prayer."
—Pytamun, initiate of Nef crop
"Your mind is too filled with foolish concerns to hear the subtle whispers that the breeze brings."

The bigger they are, the stronger its pull.
The Rakdos use it for everything you can think of and plenty more than that.


Rats and vultures devour. It desecrates.
"The people of Akros must learn from our leonin adversaries. If we match their staunch ferocity with our superior faith, we cannot fail."
—Cymede, queen of Akros
The unlabeled vial was not vanilla extract after all.
Take two steps north into the unsettled future, south into the unquiet past, east into the present day, or west into the great unknown.
Who is truer: you who are, or you who are to be?

Bugbears move with surprising speed for their size and bulk, a fact that has led to the demise of many unwary adventurers.
"You're just one more pollutant to be removed from the sea."

An explorer's reward is a view of tomorrow's possibilities.
She stands ready, always watchful, knowing that weeks of peace and serenity can be overturned by a single distant sail.

"It is not in me to tread lightly."
—Ryda, geomancer
The sky takes flight and the earth trembles.






"The end is justified in being mean. Or something like that."
Like blinking or breathing, responding to an alarm is an involuntary reflex.

Changelings can alter shape based on what the beings around them desire most.




"Whatever the Eldrazi's purpose is, it has nothing to do with something so insignificant as us."
—Nirthu, lone missionary


"I fear no army or beast, but only the morning fog. Our assault can survive everything else."
—Lord Hilneth


The wake of his passage shoved aside the influence of the kami.


"Target acquired."
"I give my blood, my life, all I have in exchange for victory."

"Just tell us how many you want and get out of the way."








The seeds of memory grow eternal.
Hers is an ancient form of necromancy, steeped in shamanic trance and ritual that few skaberen or ghoulcallers comprehend.


"Home is where you can find a decent graveyard and strangers can disappear without awkward questions."


"The sea blesses the tiny with the power to fell the mighty."
—Talrand, sky summoner

Ugin's magic reaches beyond the dragons. The clans have adapted it for war.
"I despise Vorinclex and his slobberings about 'evolution.' Only I know true progress."
—Jin-Gitaxias, Core Augur


Bladehold houses a rogues' gallery filled with the living "statues" of the worst enemies of the Auriok.
"In the name of peace, moderation, and decency—wipe them all out!"

Gerrard studied the globe as Mirri kept watch. Suddenly, his eyes widened. "This is Dominaria!"


Something roams the killing places, sniffing the guilt of the slayers, stalking them on iron paws.


The ur-golem runes tell of the transformation of Mirrodin's warden from silent guardian to merciless god.

He's mastered the art of sleight of land.
"Even if the heavens should fall or the earth split beneath your feet, I will keep you safe."
No matter your strength, the Krosan Forest is stronger. No matter your speed, the Wirewood Forest is faster.

"New links are being added to the food chain on a daily basis."
—Riptide Project researcher

"When you hear thunder on a cloudless day, take cover and brace for the coming of the storm herd."
—Skotov, Tin Street basket vendor



Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.
The Crookshank military boasts a standing army of nearly twenty-four million, give or take twenty-two million.
Spitting is the customary greeting between a creature and its magical impostor.
"After the people flee, but before the enemy arrives—that's grabbin' time."




They make terrible pets … unless you don't like your other pets.
"That's a pretty ring! Trade you my knife for it."

The bogeyman doesn't disappear when you close your eyes.




Chains of leaping fire and sizzling lightning laid waste the artificers' handiwork, sparing not a single device.




"Why would I kill you all? Who then would be left to worship me?"





"Funny," remarked Laga to his squad. "Mishra's lackeys wear luxurious silks in their gilded palaces, while we toil in the trenches eating stale bread."
If only every message were as perfect as its bearers.
Sometimes you have to read between the minds.
Infested with vermin, ever hungering, dropping from night's sky.
Cliffs echo and branches quake at the roar of life.

"What would Urza think, I wonder, if he could hear how the nature mages still snarl at his name, but venerate the work of his apprentice?"
—Teferi, to Jhoira

Your skill, dexterity, and moral flexibility make you a valuable asset to your guild.

On the volcanic continent of Akoum, bizarre vegetation clusters around gas vents, and jagged mountain peaks rise high into the air.

"I do things in my own time."
—Etha, initiate of Rhet crop



Travelers' tales claim that hydras bite off their own heads to make themselves deadlier.
"Whimsy overflow in sector G! The gremlins are rampaging and the beetles are on fire!"

"The third stage of the illness: muscle aches and persistent cough."
—Phyrexian progress notes


"Beware an eddy where there should be none or a stretch that flows too fast or too slow."
—Old Fishbones, Martyne river guide







Lock your doors... they're coming home
"A single drop of blood draws their attention, then they strip your bones clean before you have time to die."
—Jamias, hermit of Telfer Peak



The artificers of Kaladesh strive ceaselessly for perfection, progress, and the ultimate expression of elegance.

"The scavengers who first found it called it the 'Bone Crank.' Not a bad name, I'd say."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
Families of the fallen donate the swords of their loved ones to bolster the city's defenses.







Her touch brings to bare stone what water and sun bring to rich soil.


Zombies work best when they're fed appropriately, so it's prudent to let them eat on the job.
Vulshok sorcerers train by leaping into electrified storm clouds. Dead or alive, they come back down with smiles on their faces.
"Greed, rage, and bloodlust all lead to death at the hands of those who keep their heads."
—Sergeant Eyra
"He told us not to worry, and he walked into the cavern. The swirling mass of Eldrazi parted to admit him, then closed in his wake."
—Akiri, kor line-slinger
City air is a constant drizzle of private thoughts.

"No simple coin toss can solve this riddle. You must think and choose wisely."
—Shai Fusan, archmage


In the Maelstrom, a trick of the light can feast on human flesh.






Initially bred for sacrifice, the thrulls eventually turned on their masters, the Order of the Ebon Hand, with gruesome results.
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. II*







Barbarians long for a glorious death in battle. Phyrexia was eager to grant that wish.
It serves a justice higher than the whims of the gods.

If it can't be had here, it can't be had on any world.


"Fly as an arrow through the trials, and never waver in your course."
—Oketra, god of solidarity



"How have I angered nature that she would imprison me in a labyrinth of grass?"
—Kasib ibn Naji, Letters
"Aw, he's just a silly, dirty little man. What's to be afraid of?"
"Let him be imprisoned while his possessions wander free."
—Suq'Ata legal decree


On still nights you can hear its rotted teeth grinding tirelessly on scavenged bones.

"Did you have a nice nap?"
—Liliana Vess
She sings for all those who have been silenced.
Zombies mourn for the living and celebrate those who will soon be given the gift of death.

After lightning struck the cliffs, the ore became iron, the iron became steel, and the steel became greaves. The lightning never left.



"Your corruption will burn, serpent, until there is nothing left to defile."
—Asmala, bloodfire mystic
A dwarf's grudge runs deeper than the mountains' roots.
Scions of the Markov line take particular pleasure in the perversion of humans' holy rituals.
"If the Fin Clade cannot produce a reliable venomous krasis, mobile in both air and water, then the Guardian Project will absorb its resources."
—Vannifar
"Right now, in these first moments of creation, it is simultaneously nothing and everything."
"The results of our ninth inoculation were the same. The specimen was, of course, euthanized before the contagion could spread."
—Vedalken research notes
"Such a lord as this—all virtues' height— Had never been, nor ever was again."

"There's a word for someone who brings too much gear to battle: 'survivor.'"
—Zada of Slab Haven
If the presence of evil were obvious, it wouldn't be nearly as dangerous.
"The living cannot understand the benefits of death."
—Chaeska, Keeper of Tresserhorn


"The skull is rigid, but the mind is so deliciously supple."
—Eromena the Mind Render
Those who will not follow are doomed to lead.
With or without witnesses, the suns continued their prismatic dance.



"If you must go out at night, bring a mob."
—Master of the Elgaud Cathars
Magic often masters those who cannot master it.
"It is vain to look for a defense against lightning."
—Publius Syrus, Maxim 835, trans. Lyman

Liliana is never one to follow someone else's lead.

Leave the door to the past even slightly ajar and it could be blown off its hinges.

A snap of fingers, a snap of teeth.

Vulshok mana rituals echo the day when the red sun burst through Mirrodin's surface to take its place in the heavens.



Duergars who grow too large to live in the tunnels are sent topside to defend the entrances from intruders.
Nothing impresses goblins more than something that's bound to kill them.
Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.

Some say the valley of Glen Elendra is mythical, and that rumors of its existence are nothing but a faerie prank. Others say it is the fae's most fiercely guarded secret.
Grelden knelt and felt the cool, dry hand of the priest on his brow. Hours later, when his wits returned, he was covered in his enemies' blood on the field of victory.


"My motive is not vengeance but mercy. I deliver the soulless back to their severed souls."
You can gather a tidy fortune if you can avoid getting clobbered by falling treasure.
Knives in the sky, cries in the air, and blood on the ground.


He gets to the point right away.
"You're little now, yes, but one day your footsteps will make mountains tremble."
—Gustin, wildbonder

"Sheesh! How am I supposed to make a decent living around here?"
—Cabal grave robber

Many hands for many evils.
". . . It was Pang Tong's boat-connecting scheme That let Zhou Yu accomplish his great deed."

Opening Orazca unleashed more horrors than just the Immortal Sun.
"Koilos, the Thran prison-city, built to house their outcasts and dissidents. It was that Phyrexia's influence first festered."
—*Fall of the Thran*
"Every choice alters the path of fate."
—Sarkhan Vol
"At last, silence."
—Tevesh Szat
"My favorite guilty pleasure? Are there innocent ones?"

The river split into many channels as it flowed to the Halimar Sea. Few travelers could follow the same one twice.

Sometimes the weapon wields the bearer.
Only a handful have seen it transform. Or, from the wurm's perspective, only a mouthful.
"The call of the Blessed Sleep is not so strong as the call to protect those in need."
—Saint Traft


When it awoke, it shook the plane with the thunder of its craving.
The Obscura's Cloud Spire dominates the skyline, its eye a beacon of progress that sees all.
"Most people can't build decent weapons out of stone or steel. Trust the elves to do it with only mud and vines."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*





The earth's memory is long, its retribution brief.
While it possesses potent venom, the Giant Spider often chooses not to paralyze its victims. Perhaps the creature enjoys the gentle rocking motion caused by its captives' struggles to escape its web.


The seed of a world's evil.
What goes up, must come down.
Once thrown, twice burned.




When it snared a passing cockatrice, its own soul darkly doubled.






The Orzhov contract the Izzet to animate slum districts and banish them to the wastes. The Gruul adopt them and send them back to the city for vengeance.



It's a raucous, ricochet-ridden romp, loosely based on the molecular movement inside exploding stars.
"The sidar who raised me had a saying: 'The first step into death is the hardest.'"
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*

"One's plenty," observed the merrow. "Way too plenty," agreed the boggart.
The bat thrives on what underestimates it.
As a dark rain of Phyrexians fell from the sky, fountains of kavu erupted from the ground.


The knights see a mighty quarry. The dragon sees breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
As retaliation for the Warlord's ambush at the peace summit, Mishra leveled Yotia's capital city.



"East and West meet and angels cry. Unholy power darkens the sky."
—"The Ballad of the Paladins"

Their war forgotten, the nations of Bant stood united in the face of a common threat.
Properly outfitted, drakes made perfect sentries for vedalken strongholds.
"What does it mean when the dead feed on the dead? When no new life emerges, but only more death? Is it not an endless spiral into annihilation?"
—Jeddeg, philosopher of graves
Students at the Dekatia Academy learn that being sent to study with her is a lesson in itself.


"The creature rose from the mountain, its body weeping fire."
—Afari, *Tales*


Without frequent raids, orcs sometimes get bored and plunder their own ships.

それはすべての場所、どこでもない場所。論理の束縛を超えた現実の向こう側。

"The Shamans of Marit Lage do her bidding in secret, but they do it gladly."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran Priest
"Memory is a burden that wears at the soul as weather wears at stone."
—Crovax

For the first time in his life, Grakk felt a little warm and fuzzy inside.

"Every seed planted is another lesson the forest can teach us."
—Arathel, elvish queen

"Just wait—I have a response."
"When a limb is gangrenous, you cut it off. This is no different."
—Greenweaver Mina
This plague chooses its victims.

Sentries guard Ravnica's landmarks and outlying districts, unaware of these places' import to the maze.


The Arbiter is a conduit of justice, a will so disciplined that it dispenses justice without ego or remorse.



Deep in the forgotten reaches of Urborg, ancient Phyrexian monstrosities shamble endlessly, putrid ichor leaking from their rusted forms.


"You may want to hold your breath."
—Kellyg, merrow aquitect
Murky Otarian tides hide the forgotten treacheries of the Phyrexian war.
"I can no longer sit in my workshop and ignore the events outside. My hammers strike for the people of Ghirapur."


Such power grows the body as it shrinks the soul.

"Every answer seems to lead to a more terrifying question."
—Jace Beleren

They all took up the cry, the missionaries, the pilgrims, the sisters of the Orders Militant. The forces of Chaos melted before the fire of their faith.

"A language isn't dead until we stop learning from it."
You can always tell the evil one by the dagger he's sticking in you.
And thus at Maze's End
the runners end their strife.
Our saving grace, that hooded kid,
is now Guildpact for life.
—*RAVNICA! The Musical*
Every odyssey begins with a single step.
A wurm knows nothing of deception. If it opens its mouth, it plans to eat you.
When the School of the Unseen fell, so many magical treasures lay abandoned that no amount of death could deter the stream of thieves and desperate scholars.

Shanna had heard Sisay's legend all her life. Now it was time to forge her own.


They knock 'em dead, with or without the punch line.

When Baral constructed his trap for Chandra, he did not account for the arrival of an enormous leonin wielding a twin-headed axe.

Skulls for the Skull Throne.
"You lived for Serra's love. Will you not die for it?"

Wherever Yanggu goes, Mowu follows—sometimes at his side, sometimes obscuring him from view entirely.

Rumors quickly spread among thieves about a labyrinth without walls and a prize beyond all measures of worth.
"A simple trap in a dark corner of the mind, and their nightmares catch up with them."
—Geth, keeper of the Vault

The air seems full of specks, floating and circling in the draught from the window, and the lights burn blue and dim. What am I to do? God shield me from harm this night!



The tips of her bolts are blunt, but her aim is deadly sharp.
He raged at the world, at his family, at his life. But mostly he just raged.
"The wind whispers, 'come home,' but I cannot."
—Teferi



So great are his wisdom and spirit that many who have met him say that they stood before a giant of a man and talked to the wisest of the four winds.
"While you were wasting time with abstract equations, I mastered ancient Oggyar fire magic. Your move."



Early Jamuraan hunters devised a weapon that would return to its source. Tolarian Aethermancers developed a spell that skipped the weapon entirely.
A paladin's steed is a celestial spirit in animal form.
The priests plead for your anguish and pray for your despair.
"It was a pleasure to meet me."
—Captain Rex Nebula
"I will remember my friends. But you? You won't be remembered at all."
"New growth applies a healing poultice to wounds long scabbed over."

Geists seeking redemption must first be given the opportunity.

The consciousness of Mat'Selesnya does not always spread in peaceful ways.






"You think I stand alone? I have the forest at my call, the waters at my back. I outnumber you."

First to charge, first to fight.

"Dangerous to recognize. Deadly not to."
—Lazav

Synonyms for "erase" we haven't used: ablate, a̶b̶r̶a̶d̶e̶, chafe, fray, f̶r̶a̶z̶z̶l̶e̶, scuff, and scrub.

The star that burns twice as bright burns half as long.
Subtlety is not a necessary part of sabotage.
It started as a mere drop of water. The Magic Mirror crystallized it into much more.

"The realm of the gods opens before me!"




"Why cling to these trappings? They are but tools and affectations. True wealth can be possessed only in the afterlife."
"How does one become a self-taught genius? Naturally, it requires brains."

Born with wings of light and a sword of faith, this heavenly incarnation embodies both fury and purity.


Though they often bore little greater charm than the demons they battled, exorcists were always welcome in Scarwood.

"The second stage of the illness: high fever and severe infectiousness."
—Phyrexian progress notes
Fast and lethal, with a penchant for the weak and infirm.
"When milady was young, the sight of a rainbow would fill her soul with peace. As she grew, she learned to share her rapture with others." —*Lady Gabriella*
"A skilled decoy can throw your enemies off your trail. A master decoy can survive to do it again."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*
「屈辱を受けてすべての力を失った暴君の話？ それだけで刺激的だよ！」
—-シルバークイルの魔道生徒、キリアン
"Prayers will curdle on the tongue and be heard by rotting ears."
—Minaldra, the Vizag Atum


"The direst venom becomes a panacea under Pharika's guidance. I bring it to the worthy, clinging at the edge of the abyss."















"One brother fought for the sake of the Multiverse. The other for himself."
—*The Elderspell Parable*
"Hold the line, for family and the fallen!"

"A creature's bloodscent is a beacon that cannot be disguised."


Just try taking *this* bull by the horns.



Some say they are the weapons of heroes fallen in battle, eager for one last chance at glory.
She enraptures all, encompasses all, endures all.

Slivers don't learn. They just know.



It swims upon the winds and soars through the waves.

"The music is in the drum. I simply coax it out to be heard."
When opened, it erases entire landscapes from minds and maps.
A rhino's bargain
—Femeref expression meaning "a situation with no choices"
"If someone claims the sky is falling, I listen."
—Yon Basrel, Oran-Rief survivalist
Bent on a quest for blood, a giant can storm through a fort's wall as if it were nothing more than a picket fence.
It is the forest beyond the horizon, the mountain waiting to be climbed, the new land across the endless sea.
"Elemental fire shimmers with rose hues and, unlike terrestrial blazes, smolders long after it's extinguished."
—Jestus Dreya, *Of Elements and Eternity*




Only by sacrificing any semblance of defense could Gerrard best Greven.




They once sought to unite with the flame of transcendence. Now they seek only to extinguish the lights of others.




The smallest seed of regret can bloom into redemption.

The blade glows only for Zendikar's chosen.
The Futurists regard the tradition of kami-bonding as anachronistic and inefficient, striving constantly to surpass spiritual power with technology.
All of us, from the tiny leaf-mite to the towering baloth, are vital threads in the weave of life."
"Belief in the Ancestor is admirable, but our enemies often demand something more . . . tangible."
—Pianna, nomad captain
"Good things come to those who are judicious in their appetites."
—*The Book of Bruna*


"The seventh symbol, the Mark of Stone, stores the power of ancient Rath."
—*Tome of Elemental Mastery*
"They are aberrations who have turned on everything we hold sacred. Let them be cast out." —Ailheen, Speaker of the Council
All that remains when the fog finishes are neat piles of polished bones, like acid-etched glass. Orzhov servants collect them to make altar chimes.

The continent of Ondu is a vast plateau crisscrossed by deep trenches and meandering rivers.
Everybody is worth their weight in gold.

"We are this city, down to its bones."
Flavorful aromas beckon many a salivating maw.
"As she reached the pinnacle, lightning flashed and her eyes blazed with newfound power."
—*Legend of the Gilded Knights*
Imitation is the most dangerous form of flattery.
The only sound was the gentle clicking of the Faeries' wings. Then those intruders who were still standing turned and fled. One thing was certain: they didn't think the Scryb were very funny anymore.
"Make people wait for what they want, and you have power over them. This is as true for merchants and militia as it is for cooks and couples."
—Gwendlyn Di Corci
"Fire? Is that your only trick, Chandra?"
—Nicol Bolas


"Gix failed. I shall not."

"Today there is feasting and peace across our land, but the war has not ended. Tuck away your bloodlust. You'll need it tomorrow."
—Karrim, Samite healer

The assassin sees only throats and hears only heartbeats.
Liliana seized the reins of Bolas's vast army, gritting her teeth behind the Chain Veil.

The border between life and death is as thin as a layer of topsoil.

A procession of gifts with no end in sight.



"When setting a snare, success depends not on the quality of the trap, but the quality of the bait."
—Geyadrone Dihada

"Zendikar has suffered enough. It is time, at last, for my home to know peace."

Kothophed bestowed upon Liliana eternal youth, carved into her skin as intricate tattoos.


"You speak to me of the threat of Ulamog. But do not forget: they came as three."
—Ugin, to Jace Beleren


"Thorn bushes spring up wherever the army has passed. Lean years follow in the wake of a great war."
—Lao Tzu, *Tao Te Ching*,
trans. Feng and English

"Their spirits walk the winds and fill my soul."
"Release that which was never caged."
—Spellbomb inscription
Many who cross Sorin's path come down with a sudden and fatal case of being-in-the-way-of-a-millennia-old-vampire.
"In terms of intelligence, homunculi are somewhere between humans and skaabs—clever enough to follow more complex orders, but dim enough to not question them."
—Stitcher Geralf
Mephidross changes all who dwell there, taking their lives and adding them to its own.

"How do the vinebred feel? Fah! We do not ask the puppet how it feels when the puppeteer bids it dance."
Consulate guards who pursue fleeing renegades into the Cowl often become lost—occasionally permanently—in the city's wildest greenbelt.

When sorely wounded or tired, Urza would often retreat to the workshops of his apprentices. They were greatly amazed at how much better he looked each time he took a sip of water.


The air was filled with the cracks and snaps of flesh hardening as the new sliver joined the battle.

With clarity of vision comes clarity of function.

"Why allow the fires of others to burn, when ours do not? Why leave them content, while we suffer? If there is to be misery, let it be borne by all."
"What wishes do they grant? Mostly pinching-related ones."
—Omik, superintendent of waterworks
The blade glows only for Zendikar's chosen.
Once common in the Kapsho Seas, merfolk were hunted almost to extinction. They survived those dark days and emerged calculating and determined to endure.


"I knew I'd find a use for all that newt spittle!"
Boros soldiers are like a cache of bombs ready to explode, and the flame-kin light their fuses.
"You thought I wouldn't see that coming?"

The dragon who eats the last head in the basket is entitled to the servant's.
"Part of me believes that Barrin taught me meditation simply to shut me up."
—Ertai, wizard adept
"If only there were a way to counter your inevitable whining."
The gods of the trials also faced the opportunity to prove themselves worthy.
Dogs beg. Cats lay claim.
Farmers typically keep their flocks at thirteen sheep—one to distract the griffins while they take the other twelve to market.






"Pound the steel until it fits. Doesn't work? Bash to bits."
—Dwarven forging song
"That's no ordinary eruption!"
—Grazlash Stonehold, last words
The more Esper changes, the more he refuses to.
Rumors swirl of a pair of deadly Golgari assassins known only as the Left and Right Hands of the Ochran.
With their factories long destroyed, some of Mishra's creations still toil in remote areas, endlessly performing and reperforming their last orders.

There are things beneath the murk for whom the bog is a stew, a thin broth in need of meat.



His blade came down upon the neck of a goblin—but not the one he had charged. When Tivadar looked up, the world he had known was gone.


"The prohibition of unnecessary tossing of the citizenry by giants shall also extend to spontaneous giants."
—Isperia's Edict, provision VII.789.2

"Archons dispense justice according to an ancient, and flawed, premise."
—Nissa Revane
It has the run of the swamps, and it knows it.
Her prophecies amaze her even as she speaks them.
"I thought the day had brought enough horrors for our ragged band, but the night was far worse."
—Lucilde Fiksdotter, Leader of the Order of the White Shield

"I'm pleased this world has learned the moon affects more than the tides."
—Tamiyo, the Moon Sage


"Roil tide! Roil tide! Tie yourselves down!"
"Some bend the law. I tie it into knots."
Law smothers anarchy.

"Its broad claw suggests a chitinous shield, but in fact it conceals glands that secrete a remarkably swift healing agent."
—Rukarumel, field journal

A beetle on your shoulder
—Elvish expression meaning "a blessing of luck"

An explorer's reward is a view of tomorrow's possibilities.





"If it didn't hurt, how would I know it worked?"



"Once, our people could call down the storm itself to do our bidding."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
If they could replenish the land instead of draining it, Jamuraa would be teeming with them.

The humming tome burned his leather glove, nearly taking his hand along with it. Then a strange power coursed through him.


"Only the weak imprison themselves behind walls. We live free under the wind, and our freedom makes us strong."
—Zurgo, khan of the Mardu
"Yavimaya is one being—one vastness of rippling leaves, one deepness of roots, and one chatter of animals—of which I am one part."
With Phyrexia's victory at hand, each sect began perfecting its vision.
"Yotia is my birthright, father. Let me fight for it."
"We can take 'em. You go first!"

When Lorthos emerges from his deepwater realm, the tides bow to his will and the coastline cowers in his presence.





She sees mortals not as they wish to be, but as what they will become.
Their strength is no mere numbers game. An intangible force augments the wolves when they run together.



This spell, attributed to Drafna, was actually the work of his wife Hurkyl.
"The beauty of mental attacks is that your victims never remember them."
—Volrath


Two statues stand watch over the entrance to Valor's Reach, celebrating its twin founders—and its first champions.
"This imprint was the familiar of a friend."
—Vivien Reid



Find your center, and you will find your way.
Held aloft by metabolized magic, trygons are ravenous for sources of mystic fuel.

No doubt in their minds, no fear in their hearts.




Even Urza's most mundane creations shared his obsession with perfection.
The rain is driven like nails.
Each time wanderers entered the forest seeking enlightenment, Dosan was there, waiting for them to arrive.
「罪悪感は赦しではない。後悔は正義ではない。だたし、苦しむことは正しい。」
—-エクスタス・ナー
"Come closer, dear, and let me see that bauble. I've got a match for it somewhere…"
"As expected, this sphere's design reflects the colors of the four moons . . . plus another?"
—Pontifex, elder researcher

"I do things in my own time."
—Etha, initiate of Rhet crop



The death of a scout can be as informative as a safe return.

Each monitor is given an eye for each spire it is to guard.

Mardu archers are trained in Dakla, the way of the bow. They never miss their target, no matter how small, how fast, or how far away.

"The more secrets you have, the more easily you become my pawn."
"Every last one of you will become my servant. It's a shame you won't live to see the irony."
—Tsabo Tavoc, Phyrexian general

The Legion of Dusk sailed from Torrezon in search of glory, riches, and the Immortal Sun.
"Don't worry, your death will be as informative as possible."
—Gorghul, augur of skulls

His troops took the Fortress of Caerdoon centuries ago, yet he fights on.

"Her lips suck forth; see, where it flies!"
—Christopher Marlowe, *The Tragical History of Doctor Faustus*

"What was taken shall be restored."
—Arathel, elvish queen
"The Filigree Texts do not compel you to act in accordance with their precepts. They only specify the consequences should you fail."
—Lodus of the Ethersworn



"I'd like to introduce you to the new and improved me."

Some emeritus professors return from their wanderings periodically to share tales of the mystical wonders of Arcavios.

"I'm sorry, but this information is classified."
"No more fear of death's oblivion—is this not the greatest treasure of all?"
—Gurezan, Legion resurrectionist
"The Consulate pushed me to my limit, darling, and this is the result."
Even baloths fear its feeding time.
"This 'standing windstorm' can hold us off indefinitely? Ridiculous!" Saying nothing, she put a pinch of salt on the table. With a bang she clapped her hands, and the salt disappeared, blown away.
Megatron is no more . . . there is only Galvatron.



"Places, everyone!"
—Judith




"I am reminded of the fable of the silver egg. Its owner cracks it open to see what jewels it holds, only to discover a simple yellow yolk."
—Karn, silver golem

The grave robbers were startled, for the door to the mausoleum was already open.








"Our enemy is nothing less than the end of all life. We shall not want for allies."
—*The War Diaries*

The first sliver burst against the cave wall, and others piled in behind to deepen the new tunnel.
"Diplomacy has solved nothing. Only bloodspill can end this now. Call forth the warbringer."
—Basandra, Battle Seraph
"You've begun to understand the hedrons' true purpose," said Ugin. "The Eldrazi can be imprisoned.""And how did that work out last time?" asked Jace.
"A rumor passes among the snakes, whispered by the rushes, inspiring the seekers: the goddess Freyalise is alive in Skyshroud."





Tel-Jilad's sworn protectors are the trolls, yet more fearsome protectors were created by the Tangle itself.

"It rose above our heads, above the ship, and still higher yet. No foggy, ice-laden sea in the world could frighten me more."
—General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox

Sailors fear the deep-sea serpent; others thank the gods it has no legs.
When all hope fails, its light remains.


It formed a friendship with several playful spirits, and soon "the pack" was known as the source of much mischief in Eiganjo.




From nothing came teeth.



"An angel's skull is left too plain by death. I made a few aesthetic modifications."
—Dommique, blood artist

"Their chanting grows louder as the tide rises."
—Tamiyo's journal
It is the forge of kings.
At that point, the wizards' argument got a lot uglier.
The foundries of Kaladesh run like clockwork under the supervision of their formidable overseers.

The colossodon's hard outer shell stops many predators, but with a gentle flip from a dragon, it quickly becomes a meal in a bowl.
With Phyrexia's victory at hand, each sect began perfecting its vision.

"Tzeentch cares not what they were or what they become. Only that they change."
—Kairos Fateweaver

"I pity them, never knowing the pleasures of a single familiar form, but at least they find a noble shape at times."
—Desmera, perfect of Wren's Run
Swing your axe as a broom, to sweep away the foe.

"Light from the Null Moon took form—a mirage made real, alone in grandeur, isolated in a world that once had been its own."
—*Fall of the Thran*

She provides marks of protection to those she chooses as family.

The war lasted for generations. The boars didn't need to hunt for food anymore. They fed on the fallen corpses, and the living fed off of them.

The best presents are impossible to regift.





It knows one fundamental truth: bodies belong in graves.


Athreos cares little for the other gods' conflict with mortals. He is concerned only with safe passage for the dead.

"Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks! rage! blow!"
—William Shakespeare, *King Lear*


The fear of dragons is as old and as powerful as the fear of death itself.







"Should you a Rat to madness tease
Why ev'n a Rat may plague you..."
—Samuel Coleridge, "Recantation"






"*Kathorran War Chants, Vol. III*? That doesn't even belong in this wing!"

"Roots, ruins, and room to fight. All the comforts of home."
—Domri Rade




The sparkmage shrieked, calling on the rage of the storms of his youth. To his surprise, the sky responded with a fierce energy he'd never thought to see again.




"There are all kinds of strengths, but if you have strength of soul, the others will follow."
—Galanda Feudkiller
"For he on honey-dew hath fed, And drunk the milk of Paradise."
—Samuel Taylor Coleridge, "Kubla Khan"



"Your trail ends here."


The murdered inhabitants of Hollowhenge impart to the living the terror they felt in death.

"Just take a little off the top."
"I am very much in the mood to start handing out expulsions."






It is a grim duty to save the world from those created to protect it.


Obsessed with the pursuit of knowledge above all else, vedalken can appear to be cold and emotionless.
They leave a trail of ash and sorrow.



"Flee all you like. The further you run the more firmly I feel your heartbeat."

The ripe smell of life drifted into Grixis. The dead caught the scent and with reckless hunger followed it back into Jund.

A duel to first blood means something very different when a vampire is involved.
Flawed copies of relics from the Thran Empire, the su-chi were inherently unstable but provided useful knowledge for Tocasia's students.
"If you threaten its territory, it produces spores. Actually, no matter what you do, it produces spores."
—Hadi Kasten, Calla Dale naturalist

"Garl, adjust the slurry dispensers. Garl, fetch more corpses. Garl, quit crying and give me your brain tissue. If he doesn't stop being so rude, I'm quitting."
"Don't be fooled. If it were as docile as it looks, it would've died off long ago."
—Yon Basrel, Oran-Rief survivalist

"It appears Old One Eye is on the hunt."
—Marneus Calgar



The fatal flaw in every plan is the assumption that you know more than your enemy.

Stinking, silent death.
He doesn't hate small folk. He just likes the squishing sound they make.



He relishes the devotion of his Skirsdag puppets and their belief that it will earn them immortality.
Just as leaves fall from the branches of a living tree, so too do the dead leave the elfhame.
"I have foreseen that you will not pass my trial."
"Someone once said that hipparions are to warriors what aesthir are to skyknights. Don't believe it."
—General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox
"I done forgot more than you'll ever know, pipsqueak."
"Yeah—that's your problem."

"Temper, temper."
—Ertai, wizard adept
Once a famed hunter and packmaster, now a renegade seeking his own path.




"Do you not hunt the yetis of the high peaks, stripling? Their meat is as tender as a bear's and their blood as warming as fire. They are prey that will please Atarka."
—Surrak, the Hunt Caller
"Youth is wasted on the young. So I help myself to some of it from time to time."
—Sifa Grent
Summoners of efreeti remember only the power of command, never the sting of regret.



Shadowmoor's main crops are rot, slime, and despair.





"Let no trace of the vampires' foulness remain."
Hope races on sunlit hooves.



"I await your donation."
—Dasha, Orzhov priest
In its heart lies the secret of immortality.


"Esper, like any work of art, can be truly appreciated only from a distance."
—Tezzeret


"Nature cares not for the knowledge to be gained from its study. Better to bleed it dry, lest its potential be wasted on lizards and leaves."
From the remnants of the dead, Geth forged a swarm to safeguard his throne.
Their feeding habits leave them with gizzards full of tumbled gems.
In an empty castle far to the south, Li'l Giri found a child sleeping soundly. All was quiet until suddenly . . .
The fae know when they're not wanted. That's precisely why they show up.


Other birds collect twigs for their nests. Magpies collect jewels for theirs.

"It's a slithering, coldblooded menace. I've gotta respect that."
—Braids, dementia summoner


"Swords, to me! We must engage their line to protect our archers and mages. Let no one fail this task!"
Reuniting a world is not a gentle process.
They make mountains into mogg holes.



He's mastered the art of sleight of land.

"If you're not surrounded by decadence, my question to you is—why not?"
Better to be beneath Heliod's notice than beneath his heel.

Programmed to play more than seventy instruments and only one song.
Ebb and flow, high tide and low, quick as sand and just as slow.
"Who said there are no assurances in life? I assure you this is going to hurt."
Karn and Hanna stood over the recovered Legacy artifacts like loving parents over sleeping children.
Cao Cao was more concerned with capabilities than lineage. He excelled at recruiting and retaining men of talent to serve him.
"I watched with my own eyes as Jari Eagle-Caller fell from these cliffs, only to be snatched from the air by a giant bird!"
—Iskene, Kannah storyteller
It is ancient, immense, and irresistible.


Even a fragment of a powerstone contains within it not just energy, but space—vast dimensions trapped in fragile crystal.


In dire times, even a place of refuge can become a weapon of war.

Although the door is flimsy and the lock pathetically small, Josuri's family never fears the night outside.


Sometimes the trash throws you out.
"Only fools believe they will face my armies but once."
—Kaervek

It grows to hate you.
Before a woman marries in the village of Sursi, she must visit the land of the Mesa Pegasus. Legend has it that if the woman is pure of heart and her love is true, a Mesa Pegasus will appear, blessing her family with long life and good fortune.




In the abstract memories of the Iquati, Jace found interesting ideas to improve upon.
"I see more than others do because I know where to look."
—Saprazzan vizier
Today it flies with the flock. Tomorrow it may wake to find them gone, its body in an unfamiliar form.



"It's a beautiful vision. Discarded debris is reborn as a singular entity."
—Urabrask the Hidden

"Embrace the strength of your Primarch, but deny the Red Thirst, brothers! There is no return from that darkest of paths."


"The sky holds vast oceans. They are at your fingertips if you know how to call them."
—Talrand, sky summoner
"Only a mind unfettered with the concerns of the flesh can see the world as it truly is."


"The land gives of itself. Its abundance provides, even in times of chaos."
Just when you thought you'd survived the first wave.
"Go, save as many as you can! The city walls may be rubble, but Kroog will live on in its people."
—Queen Kayla bin-Kroog


Devils sow grief and harvest glee.


For the Scuzzback gang, it's always "raid o'clock."


"The Founder Dragons brought the Blood Age to an end. It is an honor to serve them."
"Do not let yourselves fall now. Zendikar is depending on us—on you!"


"Her voice is justice, clear and relentless."
—Akroma, angelic avenger
Another day, another item Pietra has to add to the "do not juggle" database.
It would be unfortunate if the key fell into the wrong hands.
"Careful now. Don't want to get the seeds stuck to your feelers like last time."




Winds through silent bloom
Hanna: "We must learn how they protect each other."
Mirri: "After they've done trying to kill us, all right?"
Anyone can get around a cyclops, but few can stand in its way.
"If you think you've killed one, guess again."
—Thalia, Knight-Cathar


"You can almost see it calculating—are we a tasty enough treat to risk the jump?"
—Samila, Murasa Expeditionary House
"You thought only the gods could stop you?"


Don't trust your secrets to the sea.









Through years of study and training, the Blacksmiths of Argive became adept at reassembling the mangled remains of the strange, mechanical creatures abounding in their native land.


"He may look like my father, but the man I knew and loved is gone."
—Danitha
The ship's captain promised she'd get you safely to the Netherese ruin, but *she* is the one who just washed overboard.
"Let them come. We will show them that Argivian steel is stronger than any Phyrexian metal."
"Diplomacy has solved nothing. Only bloodspill can end this now. Call forth the warbringer."
—Basandra, Battle Seraph

"Death is my life's work."
Each of Malakir's great families boasts a contingent of nulls appropriate to its rank in society.


"I do things in my own time."
—Etha, initiate of Rhet crop








Its spear has no shaft, its shield no handle.


No spot in nature is truly barren.






As peace returned to Thraben, some cathars made the mistake of letting down their guard.
"Arise, friend, and seize the horizon in the name of the Oak Father."

The crowd roared, the fighters bled, and the dead piled high in the pits. Only the Cabal could win.

Weak and strong alike seek shelter beneath its branches.
"There it was, clawing the ice as it chittered and clicked its teeth. We fled in horror before it unearthed its grisly meal."
—Aevar Borg, northern guide, journal entry






"There may be little honor in my tactics, but there is no honor in losing."
"There shall be a vast shout and then a vaster silence."
—Oracle *en*-Vec
"I believe many worlds will bow to Phyrexia. Mirrodin is merely the first."
—Sheoldred, Whispering One



It strides through the universe as though stepping on the stars, crossing freely between the celestial and earthly worlds.

Explosions ripped through the ship overhead, and those unfortunate enough to be directly below scrambled to find cover.


Nezumi insect-shamans enjoyed solitary lives, which was fortunate since no other nezumi could stand to live within half a mile of their foul stench.


"There are so many of them. It seems they've just been waiting for someone to serve."
Everyone wants to be on the winning side.
Goblins generally have two possessions: one per hand.

"We shall wage this war with undaunted faith and courage. We shall not take one step back."
—Lord Marshal Toshenko to the Vostroyan 16th
Bravery shines brightest in a pure soul.





There are many Jeskai styles: Riverwalk imitates flowing water, Dragonfist the ancient hellkites, and Flying Crane the wild aven of the high peaks.
We encountered a valley topped with immense boulders and eerie rock formations. Suddenly one of these boulders toppled from its perch and sprouted gargantuan wings, casting a shadow of darkness and sending us fleeing in terror.


"How could someone so small cause so much trouble?"
—Nomad sentry

Windgrace's gladehunters hibernate in the quagmires of Urborg until the scent of Phyrexian technology awakens their hunger.

The parched earth still shielded those few souls with the heart to call it home.
"And through the drifts the snowy cliffs Did send a dismal sheen: Nor shapes of men nor beasts we ken— The ice was all between." —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
Doyo suspected the boggarts of brewing a plot against his crop, so he scythed away his grain to clear the sightlines.
"Close your ears to the voice of greed, and you can turn a gift for one into a gift for many."
The Mirari flares in his mind.





"O! it is excellent
To have a giant's strength, but it is tyrannous
To use it like a giant."
—William Shakespeare, *Measure for Measure*

Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti Djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.


Some find inspiration in their swords. Others find it in their leaders.
Thundering down from Hammerheim, no foe could slow Bartel's charge.
"We outnumber them! Charge! Charge! Hey, where'd you guys go? Retreat! Retreat!"
"As if his chest had been a mortar, he burst his hot heart's shell upon it."
—Herman Melville, *Moby Dick*
Gods can be appeased. Demons, however . . .
"When all you have is a hammer, everything looks like a nail. I merely propose expanding our toolbox."
Working with the best of intentions, its researchers unwittingly unleashed a plague of troubles upon Dominaria.
"May the memory of our fallen heroes ensnare the violent hearts of lesser men."
—Great Threshold of Monserkat inscription





"From a great bonfire at the dawn of time, the first Gruul kindled their rage. The same flame burns in you."
—Kroshkar, Gruul shaman


"Until the world unites in vengeful fury and Phage is destroyed, I will not stay my hand."
—Akroma, angelic avenger
"Compared to the hunger of the fires within the earth, the appetite of a mere wurm is nothing."
—Phelgis Ojin, Keral Keep acolyte
Cradle of the Golgari's new kingdom. Grave of those who wronged its queen.
The mountains bend to no one.
Only the hardiest explorers survive to eat the fruit.
"The tiniest mouse speaks louder to me than all the festival crowds on Tin Street."



Feldon found the first of these canes frozen in the Ronom Glacier.




In the high caves of the Qal Sisma mountains, young hunters quest to hear the echoes of their fierce ancestors.

Keldons divide all their spoils into two groups: trophies and catapult ammunition.
"Sea Gate may have fallen, but we still stand. We still fight."
—Gideon Jura
In his hands, the wind can become a weapon or a means of escape.
"When all doubts have melted away, the worthy will meet the Hour of Eternity and earn a place at the God-Pharaoh's side."
—*The Accounting of Hours*
"An ancient, powerful force has overtaken the valley. I sympathize for its former inhabitants, but I rejoice for the land itself."
—Olanti, Muraganda druid
"Only the decadent think magic should be pristine and without cost."
"Keep them at sword's length!" Gerrard's order fell flat as each sliver's talon suddenly grew longer. "Hold on—break out the polearms!"
"I do not miss sunlight. The very memory of it burns my eyes."
—Volrath
Follow the pathmage
—Otarian expression meaning "escape quickly"


Harbin's ornithopter had been trapped for two days within the currents of the storm. When the skies cleared, all he could see was a horizon of trees.



It was a profitable scheme, at least until the dead began to object.
Broad as a baobab—and about as smart.


The fear of dragons is as old and as powerful as the fear of death itself.

The Jwari winds undo reality as easily as they scatter a pile of leaves.

One bone broken for every twig snapped underfoot.
—Llanowar penalty for trespassing


Fire never dies alone.


"Looks bad. I don't know if he'll make it through the night."
—Cabal cleric
The only thing more ill-tempered than a griffin in a web is the spider that must subdue it.
Never before have there been so many brilliant minds and wondrous inventions in one place. Denizens from every corner of Kaladesh will flock to the once-in-a-lifetime Inventors' Fair.
"Let my passion spur your victory."


More than one mage was driven insane by the sound of the Millstone relentlessly grinding away.


"Some lament these haunted times, but I'm a geistflame-tank-half-full kind of person."

Intent: This is an abstract depiction of a spell that causes a person to rapidly age.





Sarkhan wandered into a tomb and back in time.
"Countermagic is a simple process of breaking matter into its elementary particles."





"Never forget that the life you've built can be undone by a single loose thread."
—Perisophia the philosopher
By the time the spider comes to slurp up its dinner, its victims have been partially dissolved by acidic silk.
"While most overworlders fortunately don't realize this, Gargoyles can be most delicious, providing you have the appropriate tools to carve them."
—The Underworld Cookbook, by Asmoranomardicadaistinaculdacar

The serum from the blinkmoths they gather greases the joints of witch engines.




"We turned to see where the blow came from and saw only a distant light."
—Capashen lord
It takes three weeks for a patrol of hunters to down a slagwurm. It takes just as long to make a single cut in its hide.
"Here we go again."
—Kakra, Sea Troll
The Boros built a prison in the sky where Azorius statutes couldn't restrict their sense of justice.
Viashino hunt in gangs called thrashes. Not all thrashes hunt the freshest game.




"The fools thought me dead. But I built an empire inside my tomb."
—Kerrick, sleeper agent

"Wealth means power; the power to subdue, to crush, to exploit, the power to enslave, to outrage, to degrade."
—Emma Goldman, "Anarchism"



"What do you have that I cannot obtain?"
—Mairsil, the Pretender

"Ribbit."
"Don't look into its eyes. It's thinking things no dead thing should think."
—Captain Eberhart




In darkness, the assassin sneaked into the village and destroyed what Eladamri loved most: his daughter.



Kamahl left the violence of his former life behind him, but he still believes in the power of muscle.

"I don't concern myself with my enemy's hopes. Hopes follow the tides. They will retreat soon enough."
—Ambassador Laquatus
"What was taken shall be restored."
—Arathel, elvish queen

With each honor he earns, Gideon paves the path to his redemption.

Good riddance.
The land is dying, but it will not go peacefully.



Once vampires are disarmed, they're given wooden swords and forced to assist in the training of Midnight Duelists.
That feeling of something on your chest is usually sleep paralysis. Occasionally, it's something else.
Bend as the wave breaks or it will break you as well.
—Saprazzan saying


In the Jamuraan jungles, there is often no separating beauty from danger.


"In desperation, Konda sent warriors to parley with the ogre-magi. No one knows whether they were slaughtered at Shinka or if they even reached its bloodstained walls."
—*Observations of the Kami War*

It's as solid as the club in its hand—and about as subtle.

The knights of Troinir Keep took the rhino as their emblem due to its intense focus when charging down a perceived threat—a trait they discovered on a hunting excursion.
"The bones of the past will tell their tales—if you know how to speak their language."
Keldon raiders' spoils are limited to what their colos can carry. No matter the value, the rest goes up in smoke.
The bane of all artificers, the legendary atogs devoured intricate tools to further their own twisted growth.
One chill blast—the exhalation of the grave.
The anger of the gods multiplied in Nyx, and the land awoke in dark echoes of their rage.
"Share your darkest secret and the Mirror will reveal your soul's essence."
—Ceri, royal mirrorkeeper

The path to power is forged in ruthlessness.
"An immense river of oblivion is sweeping us away into a nameless abyss."
—Ernest Renan, Souvenirs d'Enfance et de Jeunesse


The Hekma may repel storms and monsters, but nothing holds back the heat of the suns.
"I believe many worlds will bow to Phyrexia. Mirrodin is merely the first."
—Sheoldred, Whispering One

He was born of the Mirari, thrust out of his homeland before he was even aware. Left without purpose or meaning, he found both in the pits.





"Show me all the delicious misery you've sown."


"If it were fit to survive, it wouldn't have been so easily put down."
—Glissa
Devils sow chaos and reap panic.
Ending her life won't end the infestation.

Akki paint bright, bold designs on their salvaged Imperial mechs, leaving no doubt as to who they belong to now.
To know the battlefield is to anticipate the enemy. To know the enemy is to anticipate victory.
This fight was over the moment you picked up that clumsy cleaver of a sword.



The best engineers recognize when a problem has already been solved.

"A touch of lightning, and anyone can be taught to dance."
—Tobin, sparkmage
"Virtue is an inner light that can prevail in every soul."



Within each of us lurks the fathomless.



The efreet are drawn to the Kaisham Wanderers, a loosely organized Jeskai school where trickery is employed to challenge the status quo and upend the belief systems of others.

"The specimen seems to be broken."
After lightning struck the cliffs, the ore became iron, the iron became steel, and the steel became greaves. The lightning never left.

Hedrons perplex minds both great and small.
The Great Mending that healed the Multiverse also unraveled the threads of Nicol Bolas's power.

"Death is no excuse for disobedience."
—Liliana Vess

Lumengrid, site of the Knowledge Pool, source of vedalken arcana.
Long reach, short attention span.
"Storm on the horizon, cap'n!"
—Grick Doobin, last words
"I feel the presence of the God-Pharaoh in the Second Sun, and I rise upon its rays."
When the molten rains fall, entire landscapes melt and flow away in rivulets of fire.

He's an oxymoron.



"Just the thing for those pesky water mages."
—Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
Comrades in life. Comrades in death.
The land drank power from the Mirari as though it had thirsted forever.

The goblins say it used to be larger, before it began to stoke the Great Furnace with pieces of itself.


"I am the ferocity of the Burning Sun. I am hide and feather, fang and claw."


"You were once Mardu, so your body and will are strong. Now we must train your mind."
—Houn, Jeskai elder

Necro-alchemists gained popular support during the Travails, when geist-fueled weapons helped defend towns against mad cultists and Eldrazi monstrosities.



"Rely too much on your weapons and watch your dreams shatter in your hands."
—Rhonas, god of strength




"You should have seen the look on *both* their faces."
—Morkamp, Lambholt innkeeper


The spoils of war are not measured only in gold and silver.
"Though the afterlife, the city, and even the God-Pharaoh himself were one great deception, the ideals championed by the gods remain true."
—Djeru, former Tah-crop initiate

"Avacyn has deserted you. I welcome your devotion in her stead."
"Finally, a weapon the Boros can't confiscate!"
—Juri, proprietor of the Juri Revue


The power of a waterfall. The fury of an avalanche. The intellect of a gale-force wind.







Those who fought without honor in life are taken to Agonas and doomed to fight forever in its arenas.


Each soul he devours adds its hunger to his own.
A Phyrexian "sleeper agent," Xantcha has developed an inviolate sense of self. This aberration earned her a death sentence, but she was rescued by Urza and joined his crusade. Her Phyrexian credo of "Waste not, want not" has helped Urza more than even he comprehends.



To Olivia's guests, a welcome. To everyone else, a warning.

"Our best chance against the Eternals will be tactics they've never seen and styles they've never trained in."
"Sure, trudges smell like soggy death, but the mushrooms on their backs are the tastiest delicacy in Sedgemoor!"
—Gyome, Witherbloom chef


"All are not equal—neither in life nor after death. Bontu's favorites will stand highest in eternity."
—Senifet, vizier of Bontu
Captain Angrath cares less about treasure than mayhem. If he can't leave Ixalan, he'll burn the plane down.


The problem isn't the indrik's enthusiasm, it's Ravnica's lack of guardrails.


"As this conflict grows, it gets harder to prevent the city from breaking down. How much longer can we keep this machinery balanced?"
The cave floods with light. A thousand rays shine forth and meld into one.
"The past is the foundation for all that exists in the present. We merely reconstruct what our ancestors have already discovered."
—Sachimir, Sage of Memories
"Cower, fiend. The night is yours no longer."
The destruction of a wildfire with the tenacity of a jungle vine.
"For something is amiss or out of place When mice with wings can wear a human face."
—Theodore Roethke, "The Bat"
A single eye, blinded by rage.




It started as a mere drop of water. The Magic Mirror crystallized it into much more.
"I've seen your house, and you've been a lovely, if unwitting, host. But at last it's time for farewells."
The Forsaken Ones haunt the ruins that flicker in and out of the spirit realm. Such sites are hard to find and even harder to loot.


As Glissa searches for the truth about Memnarch, Bosh searches to unearth the secrets of his past.
From fuzzy to ferocious in an instant.

Designed by David Sirlin


To save this plane, he must forsake all others.
Kuldotha, wellspring of molten metal, temple of the goblin horde.





"As the experimental population grows, so do the number of myr. It's a perfect equilibrium."
—Memnarch

Sometimes it's useful to take a break from existence.


"Jarad was a friend to the Devkarin. Now we slink through neglected tunnels, befriending those who crawl them."
—Izoni

Other Phyrexians have nightmares about the gargantua.
"The promise of victory fills my heart. There is no room for fear."


Reflections from the wind-sculpted snow gleam with every color of the rainbow.

The Isle of Wak-Wak, home to a tribe of winged folk, is named for a peculiar fruit that grows there. The fruit looks like a woman's head, and when ripe speaks the word "Wak."

"Dungeons and cages offer far too little sport."
—Relio Voldaren
"With no further options, I was forced to don the mask."
—Rashida Scalebane
Its fangs are in your flesh before its hiss leaves your ears.



"And Muzzio says my arguments have no teeth."
—Selvala, ranger of the Lowlands


"The beholder told me I had a good eye for details. Who was I to argue?"
"I am that merry wanderer of the night."
—William Shakespeare,
*A Midsummer Night's Dream*
"The land is weary. Even Skyshroud is depleted. We must find another source of mana—one that is growing despite our withering world."
—Freyalise
"Your army must fear you more than the enemy. Only then will you triumph."
—Malga Phlegmtooth

"Strength is what keeps us alive. Compassion is what keeps us human."

Dragon birth lairs are littered with treasure to entice the young from their eggs.


So many aven had died scouting the distant fronts that the knight-captains recruited Nayan falcons as couriers.
There may exist powers even greater than Phyrexia.


Once freed, the oni demanded more and more sacrifices to appease them. The ogres happily obliged.

"You will either begin or end the ride no taller than this."






Structures built from darksteel yield to neither assault nor age.

"I had to wrestle a squirrel for it, but I won!"
"Master the chaotic forces of nature, and you shall master magic."
—Yare-Tiva, warden of Gramur forest


"We have learned much from the orochi."
"By ancient magics, by angels' grace, we will survive this night."
Not once in the history of Grixis has anyone died of old age.

Ramos fell, and there was night.

Dark is light and day is night When the winter moon shines.
When the last scrap of flesh is scoured away, the Curse of Wandering ends. Then the dead may sleep.
"All matter, animate or not, rots when exposed to time. We merely speed up the process."
—Ezoc, Golgari rot farmer
A void as cryptic as reality itself.

"You are loved, child."
"It is their duty to fight and die so that Humanity might be preserved."
—Lord Commissar Barron Reed

An advisor once asked the Western Paladin how much gold would be enough. "I have no need of fools who can imagine 'enough,'" he told the advisor's corpse.

"Let the blood of the impure flow through you. Only the blessings of the golden city will purge its acrid taste from your mouth."
—High Marshal Arguel

"Every seed holds strength and teaches patience."
"My greatest creation—me!"

"In the Hour of Glory, the gods and the untested will prove their worth before the God-Pharaoh."
—*The Accounting of Hours*
The foulest of fowl.

All orbital bombardment did was till the soil.







These nimble sparrows, not often seen, delight in tricking the pangolins that wander the forest.
The metal must be pure. The hand must be steady. The product must be perfect.

"Could there be a fouler act? No doubt the Baron knows of one."
—Autumn Willow


Even the poisoned land around the Stronghold blossomed with new life in the wake of the Great Mending.


"These moonless, foreign skies keep me in thrall. Dark whispers echo in the night, and I cannot resist."
—Selenia, dark angel








Every facet a portent of Kelemvor's inevitable judgment.
When nature calls, *run*.
Asmira's prayers alone should have freed Mangara from the amber prison . . .


Even the clouds became a field of battle. Known as the Sky Theater, it saw the Eternals clash with squadrons of angels.

"Their fragile world. Their futile lives. They obstruct the Grand Evolution. In Yawgmoth's name, we shall excise them."
—Oath of the East





Innistrad's best archers are trained by the Quiver of Kessig, an order of cathars who specialize in ranged combat.


"The rare and beautiful butterflies inspire the design of our thopters. The larvae, however, are a different story entirely."
—Kiran Nalaar, Ghirapur inventor
His family was a small price to pay for the dark gifts that called to him.



Before Shinka's walls were built, before the torii at Okina stood, she was there, tall and proud against the sky, and she will be there long after they have fallen into dust.
Rainclouds don't last long in Shiv, but that doesn't stop the lightning.
"It seems the fate of the world rests on your shoulders, feeble child."
The vanguard is skilled at waging war alone. The enemy is often defeated before its reinforcements reach the front.


"A kick from its hooves is like a bolt of lightning. I'd know. I've been hit by both."
—Rencz, Izzet chemister's aide





"Sturdy nails make for sound sleep."
—Cosper Lowe of the Silbern Guard


Bleak rumors reached Trostani's ears. She decreed that no one should travel alone.
The kor send their thopter kites to see if the land is in a welcoming mood.
There will always be a spot at Valor's Reach for headlong violence.
He's smart for a goblin. He can do two things: hit *and* run.
Pray that it doesn't seek the safety of your lungs.
"Learn from your enemies, but do not tolerate them."

"Even this primitive specimen of my kind is impressive."
—Niv-Mizzet

Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.
Never flinch. Never falter. Never fear.

"You cannot achieve greatness if its seed has not already been planted in your heart."



"He's a lot like me, that masterless little kami . . . unimpressed by grandeur and never at a loss for a trick."
—Toshiro Umezawa

Like so many Thran relics, the wurm engine kept operating long after its creators were gone.
The sea's reach extends beyond its shores.
The golems of the ancient Thran still draw power in ways that baffle the artificers of today.




It's no coincidence that the oldest trolls are also the angriest.
The arrival of the God-Pharaoh marked a betrayal of both gods and mortals.

The goblins have forty-two different words for "ow."
Sleep doesn't always mean rest.


"Ghirapur's gremlin population poses a threat to the infrastructure of the fairgrounds. Threats must be eliminated."
—Sram, senior edificer




"Now, did I file that away under 'C' for 'Combo' or 'F' for 'Finisher?'"

"To think you've spent years honing your body only to die like this."


"Tear down the city, lie by lie. Then throw it back at the liars, stone by stone."
—Domri Rade
As Multani's troops invaded Urborg, the decay of the swamp became a feast for the living.

"Prepare for battle!"
—Jiang Yanggu

"Shed your thoughts and let my will flow through you."


Chief among the tenets of Purphoros is that one must destroy in order to create.

"Aselbo soon had the rhino eating from his palm and the snake waiting at his heels."
—Afari, *Tales*


"One pain is lessened by another's anguish."
—William Shakespeare, *Romeo and Juliet*
A healthy felidar is voracious yet regal. A rabid felidar is nothing more than appetite lashed to frothing jaws.



Winnowers live to eliminate eyeblights, creatures the elves deem too ugly to exist.

Dappled coats become armored hides. Soft jaws become razor tusks. Nestling play becomes the fight for survival.
"Truth is a straight, keen edge. There are no soft angles or rounded edges. To fight for truth, we must forge in steel."
"A riddle is nothing more than a trap for small minds, baited with the promise of understanding."

Memnarch designed some myr to follow the levelers and reaffix lost parts. Mirran partisans put that instinct to good use.
"I search for a vision of Zendikar that does not include the Eldrazi."
—Expedition journal entry

Valuing scholarship above all else, the inhabitants of the Ivory Tower reward those who sacrifice power for knowledge.
"The Inn was ever a steady source of good cheer and kindness. Greatly do I miss it, now that I am gone."
—Ihsan's Shade
The largest dunk tank in forty-seven galaxies.
"Just wait till I get my Krark-Clan Ironworks, Genesis Chamber, and Grinding Station. Oh yeah, and a second Myr Retriever."
Cradle of the Golgari's new kingdom. Grave of those who wronged its queen.

"We must spread Bant's light before we are shadowed over."
Although the abuse was initially effective, the troops soon became numb to it.

"Thieves and squid squirm the same way when you capture them."
Scholars had puzzled for centuries over the ruins at Tal Terig. Its secrets had always lived within one rune-carved head.


"Barbarian raids were a concern to those living in the northwest provinces, but the Skyknights never dealt with the problem in a systematic way. They thought of the Balduvians as an 'amusing model' of their forebears' culture."
—*Kjeldor: Ice Civilization*

"Wait 'til Toggo sees this!"

"There's no contract to sign, no oath to swear. The enlistment procedure is to unsheathe your sword and point it at the enemy."
Some adventuring parties are made up of old friends, their common bonds bolstering them in the face of peril. Other parties simply hire the biggest, meanest muscle they can find.
No one in Aphetto answers a knock at the door after sundown.
Nothing lives within it, yet there is life.
"Just as you see the grave and remember the friend, I see this forest and remember Llanowar."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight*
Dominaria's most extravagant crypt nevertheless holds an empty grave.


"Selesnya's soil is sacred, and you're about to meet it with your face."
Noggles live purely by what they can scavenge. There is not a single thing a noggle eats, wears, or uses that did not once belong to another.
"Deep inside the Sokenzan Mountains, a band of akki discovered a cache of ancient items of power. Their ensuing spree of destruction became known as 'The Three Days of Fun.'"
—*Observations of the Kami War*


"It's actually quite simple, but since you've only recently begun to walk upright, it may take some time to explain."
—Jace Beleren, to Garruk Wildspeaker





"As soon as it surfaced, we could all smell it. Its rancid breath reeked of half-digested carrion and its own rotting innards."
—Dafri, Auriok champion
The tools of invention became the weapons of revolution.

"The most enlightened mages create beauty from violence."
—Medomai the Ageless
I tell you, there was so many arrows flying about you couldn't hardly see the sun. So I says to young Angus, "Well, at least now we're fighting in the shade!"


Conjured from the bowels of hell, the fiery wall forms an impassable barrier, searing the soul of any creature attempting to pass through its terrible bursts of flame.

During the Chicken Revolution, the king managed to keep his head while the others—well, just ran around.
Scholars had puzzled for centuries over the ruins at Tal Terig. Its secrets had always lived within one rune-carved head.




Where strength and humility converge.

"There is always more to give."



A special unit guards the loxodon artificer known as Ghalma the Shaper. They are armed and armored in her finest works of silver and steel.

Healers ultimately acquire the divine gifts of spiritual and physical wholeness. The most devout are also granted the ability to pass physical wholeness on to others.
Vedalken eyes don't see the beauty in things. They see only what those things can teach.


"I am the blood of the ur-dragon, coursing through all dragonkind."

She displays her scars with pride.

"Survival rule 782: There are *always* more scute bugs."
—Zurdi, goblin shortcutter

"That which nourishes can also bind."
—Gemma, Willow Priestess

It keeps intruders out and experiments in.
The strongest walls are made not of stone or steel but of the focused strength of warriors.
"Rarely have power and madness been so delightfully wed as they have in our dear Grandmother."
—Baron Sengir

Fragments of thought refract and multiply, surging in a geyser of dizzying insight.



Even without her, the cubs will always know their mother's love.
The undercity is always hungry.

"Good night."
"Valiant Icatia was the last of the Sarpadian empires to fall. Its faithful soldiers defended their cities to the very end."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. VI*
"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim."
—Sisay, captain of the *Weatherlight*


"I waded through a river of fire to bring death to Bretagard."

"Yes, the Farmers keep our soldiers fed. But why do they have to make every battlefield a pigpen?"
—Toothlicker Harj, Orcish Captain
"Too many of us have died in the explosions that wrack these hills."
—Klazina Jansdotter, Leader of the Order of the Sacred Torch
"As this conflict grows, it gets harder to prevent the city from breaking down. How much longer can we keep this machinery balanced?"
"Blasted fishtails! It's not enough that they meddle with my head, but they twist my body as well."
—Tahngarth of the *Weatherlight*
Blood, bone, and sinew are magnified, as is the rage that drives them. The brain, however, remains unchanged—a little bean, swinging by a strand in a cavernous, raving head.
"You may fight if I deem your cause worthy."
A typhon's escape from the Underworld makes armies flee and kingdoms fall.


With one motion, a pest is removed and a scourge inflicted.
"Life is a resource that should belong only to the strong."
—Shauku, Endbringer
"After death you face paradise, damnation, or Tariel."
—Priest's teaching
The stadium is well-stocked with hazards to force the action if combatants show too much caution.
Enduring the most desolate and dangerous conditions, Abzan sentries unfailingly guard the stronghold gates.

Just as with a peach, the first bite is always the juiciest.
Horas swore off drinking, but after meeting the creature a second time he decided he'd better start again.





"You may enter, but leave those lifeless things of your world behind."
—Modruni, maro-sorcerer
"Zendikar fortifies itself against the Great Threat, making sentries of sky, sea, and stone."
—*The War Diaries*




"There is always more to give."



"In these halls there is no pass or fail. Your true test comes with the first full moon."



"Industry without artistry is just a fancy way to fill the junkyard."



"In the early days, Urza's wondrous automatons were seen as symbols of hope and courage."
—*The Antiquities War*
Out of the blackness and stench of the engulfing swamp emerged a shimmering figure. Only the splattered armor and ichor-stained sword hinted at the unfathomable evil the knight had just laid waste.



The dead know lessons the living haven't learned.






The most terrifying thing about the Craw Wurm is probably the horrible crashing sound it makes as it speeds through the forest. This noise is so loud it echoes through the trees and seems to come from all directions at once.
"You've been cramming all night. You're taking a nap whether you like it or not."

"Relent, and you may transcend your situation."
—Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen
„Wir können den Wald ebenso wenig verlassen wie die Sterne den Nachthimmel."


The dense jungle surrenders to a lush and lavish expanse. At its center uncoil the spires of Qarsi Palace.



"A few arrows aren't enough to pierce your faith, soldier. You'll be back on the battlefield by sun's dawn."

Disaster stalks with gaping jaws across unready lands.
"Virtue is an inner light that can prevail in every soul."


His mind was lost long before his flesh.

The broken Qal Sisma foothills make poor terrain for cavalry, but a perfect setting for ambushes.
Places of worship become frenzies of violence as the psychic call of the Hive Mind stirs Genestealer Cults to action.


"Relative of yours?" Ertai teased. Mirri simply sneered.
When Mirrodin's varied civilizations developed ways to fight the levelers, Memnarch upped the stakes.
"Ribbit."



It's not just a feeling—you are being watched.

"A flash of the lightning, a break of the wave, He passes from life to his rest in the grave."
—William Knox, "Mortality"
"The maaka remain loyal to us in this time of strife. We don't even have to feed them—our enemies do."
—Nedja, Gruul shaman


The mirrors weren't fun for everyone.


After lightning struck the cliffs, the ore became iron, the iron became steel, and the steel became greaves. The lightning never left.
Pirate captains rarely enjoy a peaceful retirement.

These spirits of the air are winsome and wild, and cannot be truly contained. Only marginally intelligent, they often substitute whimsy for strategy, delighting in mischief and mayhem.

"Do not mistake a quiet rampart for one that is unguarded. Some things stir only when they need to."
—Bonovar, siege commander

Tonight at the Grand Exhibition, witness Head Judge Tezzeret face off against the infamous renegade Pia Nalaar.
Greven *il*-Vec lifted Vhati off his feet. "The fall will give you time to think on your failure."

"I keep reminding myself we do this because others can't, because we love this city. If we don't save it, no one will."


Fragments of thought refract and multiply, surging in a geyser of dizzying insight.
"They're a hardy bunch, but I'd still bet that they just slept through the worst of the cold times."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry


"The arc of my blade has carved a path of light for the peace that will follow."

Once guarded by the Knights of the Reliquary, the tower stands now protected only by its own remoteness, its dusty treasures open to plunder by anyone.


"A better Ravnica begins with a better Simic."
—Vannifar
All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.
Before the monuments, before the first trials, before Naktamun itself, Bolas culled the plane of its adults in order to rebuild it for his own designs.


Some vampires resorted to corpse trading after cathars burned their estates and drove them from their ancestral feeding grounds.
Foul-tempered, poorly trained, and mule-stubborn, the drake is the perfect test of the master's will.


A great mirage, a dream of wings and silver.
The Izzet learn something from every lesson they teach.


A regular guest at the Royal Masquerade, Arien is the envy of the Court. She appears in a new costume every hour.

Ground into the footprints of the ravaging herd were clumps of salt from Benalia, moss from Llanowar, dust from Hurloon, and ash from as far as Urborg.
A blazing sun that never sets.
Consulate-built automatons have a lifetime warranty.

Three heads are better than one.
A lie always returns; be careful how you catch it.


"I do unto others as others have done unto me."
—Phage the Untouchable
Followers of Tourach regarded all other religions equally: with open contempt. Not so the followers of Leitbur, who made it their mission to eradicate the Order of the Ebon Hand.


Sometimes it's best to let sleeping dragons lie.

A vampire enacts vengeance on the entire world, claiming her debt two tiny pinpricks at a time.
"I hold the seed of our new beginning."
"The light of my master's guidance traverses all boundaries, even those separating life and death."

So wondrous to behold, so delicate and finely crafted—and yet, such a pleasure to smash.




The wurms consume everything in their path, so the elves make sure that their path goes through as many Phyrexians as possible.



If taken, it cuts the hand that clutches it. If given, it heals the hand that holds it.

The nomads' funeral pyres are more practical than ceremonial.

Her commands are part rallying cry, part sermon, and wholly undeniable.

There's no stronger armor than the bravery of those beside you.
"The Gitaxians whisper among themselves of other worlds. If they exist, we must bring Phyrexia's magnificence to them."





"There may be a few minor additional fees, levies, duties, surtaxes, tariffs, imposts, tolls . . . ."
"Nature does not need adornment."
—Garruk Wildspeaker
"The foot stone is connected to the ankle stone, the ankle stone is connected to the leg stone..."
—*Song of the Artificer*
A single festercreep isn't alone. It's already an infestation.
"Deal with the spawn of Phyrexia cautiously; only with time may we control them."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
It is the forest beyond the horizon, the mountain waiting to be climbed, the new land across the endless sea.

No thought but hunger. No strategy but destruction.


"Oh, sorry—were we racing?"




"After four thousand years, you learn to plan for betrayal."
—Urza

"By the time you've seen it all, all have already changed."
—Wandering treant, name unknown
Caught red-handed.

"You clerics brag about your strength of spirit, yet I take away the tiniest fragment, and you crumple like a rag doll."
—Sorin Markov
Bear the weight of so many spirits and you'll surrender civility and restraint to savagery and instinct.




As the soldiers beneath her raised their voices, the angel spread her wings, their span seeming to cover the sky.

The taskmaster knows that there is no cure for the common kobold.

"Have you ever held a Boros signet? There's a weight to it that belies its size—a weight of strength and of pride."
—Agrus Kos
The student searches the world for meaning. The master finds worlds of meaning in the search.


"Some see a coastal disaster. I see a fully-stocked seagraf."
—Jadar, ghoulcaller of Nephalia


"They never found the body of young Josu, or that of his murderous sister."
—"The Fall of the House of Vess"
The Viridian elves had purged their culture of the trolls' traitorous influence. In times of strife, however, the ancestral memories returned.
Metal permeates the marrow of every bone in Mephidross—except one.

"It is my honor to keep safe Tel-Jilad's secrets, not to know them."
"After voyaging all the way through the Astral Sea with my life hanging by a silver thread, fighting the mind flayer was the easy part."
When war machines became too costly, Tawnos's weaponry replaced them.
Made strong by reckless magic. Made horrid by reckless strife.
Sometimes the Astrotorium's stunts look dangerous because they absolutely are.



Few have seen the inner workings of Ravnica's furnaces, but neighboring districts catch brief glimpses in the horrors that escape the flames.
"Of course she's at the head of her class. All of her classmates have disappeared."
—Tolarian renegade
"A richer people could give more but they could never give as much."

He craves only one commodity.



"Too many have disappeared in these dark days. I am the light that will lead them home."
Two times the size, four times the smell.

Most myr monitor other species. Some myr monitor other myr.







Most goblins get their turn firing the catapult, but few achieve the coveted title of Ammunition Holder.

The native creatures of Zendikar have adapted to live under rocks and crawl through underbrush in order to avoid the most voracious predators. The Eldrazi have yet to make such adjustments.


The strongest pack has the fiercest pups.

"I can no longer sit in my workshop and ignore the events outside. My hammers strike for the people of Ghirapur."


Even its shadow is a dazzling rainbow.






"What is mana but possibility, an idea not yet given form?"
—Jhoira, master artificer

"It was difficult to tell whether the piles of gore within their warrens were mere trash heaps, sacred altars, or warnings."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV*


"If it tastes one drop of elvish blood I will cast it from the shroud to see it burn."
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
Without Ardenvale's loyalty, the realm would greedily devour itself.

"A rift opened, and our arrows were abruptly stilled. To move was to push the world. But the sliver's claw still twitched, red wounds appeared in Thed's chest, and ribbons of blood hung in the air."
—Adom Capashen, Benalish hero





The "leaking spire" stands for liberation from Consulate control.


"Do you not hunt the yetis of the high peaks, stripling? Their meat is as tender as a bear's and their blood as warming as fire. They are prey that will please Atarka."
—Surrak, the Hunt Caller







In their hunger for the arch's power, mages often forget that it only makes dragons easier to summon. It doesn't make them easier to control.
The hunters spent the evening celebrating their kill and the rest of the night running from it.
"'Tis a strange creature indeed that chooses the vanquished over the victor."
—Awylla, elvish safewright

Made from canvas, wood, and hope.

The angels appreciated the offer but politely declined to eat any birdseed.



There is no gift more precious or more perilous than fire.
The rot farmer's first rite of passage is to craft a pair of work stilts.
"I don't rub salt in wounds. I use sulfur."
—Matoc, lavamancer

"There is no saving this world, not anymore. But we shall be its bloody vengeance."
—Sorin Markov
It is an expert at culling individuals who stray too far from the herd.
The minotaurs of the Hurloon Mountains are known for their love of battle. They are also known for their hymns to the dead, sung for friend and foe alike. These hymns can last for days, filling the mountain valleys with their low, haunting sounds.

"For those of courage, even the sky holds no limit."
—Arnjlot Olasson, Sky Mage
Gods can be appeased. Demons, however . . .
"I AM FILLED WITH DELICIOUS CANDY. I AM NOT A TRICK."



Like the price of goods, the value of the routes was renegotiated daily.


"I don't need your mage-rings or your mana equations. I call, and the sea answers."
—Keyta, rebel hydromancer

"The day is mine! I sent three such creatures against my foe, then watched as my magefire popped her soldiers like overripe spleenfruits."
—Dobruk the Unstable, pyromancer
Nine generations of metalworking skill are no match for nine hundred pounds of rage.







"I run the maze alone, but I fight with the full might of the Legion."
When nature calls, *run*.
"If it didn't hurt, how would I know it worked?"



There's beauty in the desert—but it's best to view it from afar.
"Without Combat Medics, Icatia would probably not have withstood the forces of chaos as long as it did."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. VI*

"They're still here?! The cockroach may have finally met its match."
—Teferi

Once a year, the skies over Paliano fill with the flying machines of those who hope to be taken on as pupils by the artificer Muzzio.
"The cruelest monsters inspire the greatest tales. The greatest tales inspire the cruelest hunters."
—Rielle, the Everwise


"Some merfolk choose to rest their fins in the water. I believe wisdom exists not only where we were born but where we were told not to go."



The oil sloshes against his skull as he nears his destination: the Frogtosser Games and the lighting of the Flaming Boggart.


If a land can be said to have a heart, Okina is the heart of Kamigawa.
"Of your blood I will make my mead, an offering to the thirsty jungle."
You haven't see it until you see it in 6-D.


"I didn't come to play. I came to win."
Sister to Sun Quan and wife to Liu Bei, Lady Sun often felt her loyalty to both tested.
"A tome stored in its light is as crisp as the day it was written."
—Ettovard, Tolarian archivist
The Vulshok see the artificer as a catalyst, bringing the spark of creation that ignites change.
Before the elf queen will aid you, you must find a way to cure the strange rot afflicting the roots of the ancient trees.


"The Dauthi came from beneath the Ruins one night, and the darkness cast them in the best possible light."
—Soltari *Tales of Life*


"As far as I can tell, that frog dangling from the stick serves absolutely no purpose whatsoever."
—Gaddock Teeg




"Returne from whence ye came. . . ."
—Edmund Spenser,
*The Faerie Queene*
She remembers every word spoken, from the hero's oath to the baby's cry.



"Truth is always a weapon in your enemies' hands."
—Geth, Lord of the Vault
"The best denials are simply that: a beginning and end unchanged, a dream with no memory."


The bones of doomed ships jut out from the muck while the bones of their sailors molder below.
"If we cannot have peace, we will have justice."
—Aurelia
One bone broken for every twig snapped underfoot.
—Llanowar penalty for trespassing
"I've been carrying a sword since before you were born. I wouldn't give up my oath for all the peace and comfort in the world."
"Where I come from, stone stays on the ground."
—Tahngarth of the *Weatherlight*
It promises protection to those in need and proclaims a warning to any who would threaten Ravnican law.

Mephidross gives up treasure easily . . . as long as you take its place.
In Mishra's desperation to destroy his brother, he allowed Gix to destroy him instead.

Many a besieged city has surrendered upon hearing the distinctive rumble of the juggernaut.
Some humans willingly offered up their blood, hoping it would grant the vampire families the strength to stave off the Eldrazi.
When nightstalkers sing, nothing in creation sleeps.



"Those who wish to become evincar must first cast off the shackles of compassion."

Urza tried to rule the air, but Gaea taught him that she controlled all the elements.

"It augments anamnesis. What is so confusing about that?"
—Perisophia the philosopher
Without warriors there can be no war.
Busy as a bumblebee, blistered as a goblin.
—Alaborn saying

Nature grows solutions to her problems.


Some of Minamo's students claimed he was as old as the knowledge he dispensed.
"This one fights like a leonin!"
—Jor Kadeen
"The emergence of the Eldrazi isn't necessarily a bad thing, as long as you've already lived a fulfilling and complete life without regrets."
—Javad Nasrin, Ondu relic hunter



The shield of unimpeachable purity is as strong as any wrought on the anvil.


"Those talons really dig into your skin, but it's better than being dropped."
—Rafiq of the Many

Abandoning his sword to return to the lush forest of Pendelhaven, Jacques le Vert devoted his life to protecting the creatures of his homeland.
"No doubt the arbiters would put you away, after all the documents are signed. But I will have justice now."
—Alovnek, Boros guildmage

"I can't protect everyone here. But those I can, I will."
—Karn
"The Tangle loans you life. Spend it well."
Confronting Cao Cao's army at Steepslope Bridge, Zhang Fei bellowed, "I am Zhang Fei of Yan! Who dares fight me to the death?" Cao Cao's army cowered and fled.
"Atarka's people starve while she feasts upon the bounty of their hunts. They must conquer ever more lands just for the sake of their own subsistence."
—Arel, Unseen Whisperer

"Our friends of the forest take many forms, yet all serve the will of Freyalise."
—Laina of the Elvish Council


"Release that which was never caged."
—Spellbomb inscription
"Lighting a fire needs kindling and heat. You be the kindling. I'll bring the heat."
—Chandra Nalaar

Heida allowed herself a moment of satisfaction as she watched the beast fall, then turned to seek another foe. It would be a long, long night.
Which is more unsettling: the roar of battle or the silence that follows?

Death awaits them on both fronts.

"Do not touch a drop. Not yet. I want to watch this so-called slayer's last crisis of faith."
—Olivia Voldaren



"You have almost completed your four years, my son. Soon you shall be a skyknight."
—Arna Kennerüd, skyknight
Ashnod found few willing to trade their humanity for the power she offered.


"To see past the veil of death, cross it."
@-The Red Book of Mezdrithalik
"Teferi is a problem student. Always late for class. No appreciation for constructive use of time."
—Barrin, progress report
She doesn't escort the dead to the afterlife, but instead raises them to fight and die again.

"The perils of the road, you say? Don't worry. You won't have to face those again."
Ancient yet ever-young, it is wise and subtle—and cruel and reckless as the spring itself.
It started as a mere drop of water. The Magic Mirror crystallized it into much more.

"There were often more Thallids after a battle than before."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. III*
"Have you ever seen a world fall to its knees? Watch, and learn."
—Ob Nixilis


Healers ultimately acquire the divine gifts of spiritual and physical wholeness. The most devout are also granted the ability to pass physical wholeness on to others.



Long thought merely a legend, the appearance of the gnarr was seen by the defenders as a sign of good luck.
Gaea forged her soldiers into self-wielding weapons that struck down all impurities.
The progeny of the Maelstrom shows no allegiance—and no mercy—to any of the five shards.
"We don't like interlopers and thieves cluttering our skies."
—Dionus, elvish archdruid

Fortunately for it, Mirrodin is a plane without salt.

Once every seven years it flies on spectral wings over the moors of ancient battlefields.
"Tools and artisans can be destroyed, but the act of creation is inviolate."
—Elspeth Tirel
"Your service shall be rewarded."
—Queen Lian
"These kavu are so stubborn they even refuse to die."
—Tahngarth
"Our revered ancestor Seshiro gave us wisdom greater than poison and fangs."
"The blood on my hands is merely proof of my ambition."
—Kaervek



"That was the worst experience of my days, standing there helpless as they killed my whole troop." —Maeveen O'Donagh, *Memoirs of a Soldier*




"Fools dig for water, corpses, or gold. The earth's real treasure is far deeper."



Even those born to battle could only lay their blades at Akroma's feet.

"On vile wings and bloody wind, the swarm will rise."
—Skyclave inscription


"There is great wisdom in rushing headlong into combat . . . if you're prepared."
—Kenjek, captain of the Thousand Swords

With heavy heart, Urza doused one world's light to rekindle another's.

The form of the sigil is just as important as the sigil itself. If it's carried on a medallion, its bearer is a master. If it's tattooed on the body, its bearer is a slave.




The oil created the mycosynth. The mycosynth created New Phyrexia.
"We leave our gardens open, so all may know wonder, but guarded, so all may know peace."
—Emmara
"What tries to crush our spirit only strengthens our resolve."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
"To halt these lurid practices, Geralf must be found and made an example of."
—Inquisitor Delmund
You'd better know how to pray for rain.
The pits swallow the weak as predators swallow prey.


"The sword is just a tool. It is the samurai's hand that delivers death."

"You bound me with a contract only your death could end—and you thought me the fool?"
—Liliana Vess




Purphoros forged the manticore's tail from bronze, its teeth from silver, and its heart from hate.



"Any fool who would die for honor is better off dead."
—Cabal Patriarch
"My mind is the calm in the midst of the storm, and my javelin the lightning."

Metal permeates the marrow of every bone in Mephidross—except one.

"When properly invoked, the plasma globule encloses the offensive spell with a satisfying slurp."





A skilled ranger can glance at the mud on your boots and tell where you last camped.
"An unexpected ally."
—Rem Karolus, Slayer of Angels
"O! call back yesterday, bid time return."
—William Shakespeare,
*King Richard the Second*
Like the city, weakest at its foundation.
"Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks! rage! blow!"
—William Shakespeare, *King Lear*
Her rallying cry reaches far beyond the Tajuru elves, inspiring all those who hear it.
For a sharp second, Selenia froze, and Crovax's blade found home. As the angel shattered like glass, Crovax felt his mind collapse—the curse had been fulfilled.

"Sheath your swords! Cudgels only. I see a new pair of waterproof trek boots slithering away."
—Nablus, North Hada trapper


In life, they were a motley crew: farmers, lords, cutpurses, priests. In death, they are united in singular, benevolent purpose.
Oriq agents stick to the dark corners of Arcavios, unseen yet ever-present.


Only the most ravenous soul feeds on the health of the weak.

With limited resources and near unlimited time, Kerrick used parts from one beast to build another.
"Monsters dwell in every heart. We only think civilization tames them." ―Euphemia, Nexus watcher


"You with the red shirt! You're up next."







"Alone, it's a fortification. At the head of its troops, it's a battering ram."
—Skerk Hobnett, wilderness guide

To snare what lies between worlds takes the patient reach of trees.
"Life as we know it dangles on the brink of extinction. We must show the strength they would steal from us."
—*The Invokers' Tales*

No rampart can withstand the fury of a giant.
A blade that has never known sheath, a hilt that has never known hand.



Just one can feed a dozen people for a month.

The vedalken interrogate all intruders—once the hoverguards are done with them.
This secret society of mages manipulates the beliefs and opinions of others.


Goblins' fearlessness and diminutive size make them the perfect cannoneers.
The first to arrive on Dominaria from their distant home, the marids are the oldest tribe of djinn and the most respected by storm and sea.
Dominaria erodes with each passing gust.

The pits have their own form of mercy.


"And who will stop me? You?"

"...There was no trace/ Of aught on that illumined face..."
—Samuel Coleridge, "Phantom"
Grief is a crucible where resolve is tempered.



"We train for the improbable, like lightning striking the same place twice, or striking everywhere at once."
—Nundari, Sea Gate militia captain



They get along so well with their goats because they're practically goats themselves.

"All matter, animate or not, rots when exposed to time. We merely speed up the process."
—Ezoc, Golgari rot farmer



"I've been through every guildgate in this city, and no one sees me come or go."
"There's plenty of fire to go around."
—Chandra Nalaar
To most, a terrifying apparition. To a necro-alchemist, a potent fuel source.




"Our land will not yield to Phyrexian corruption!"
Its curve mimics the twists of life and death.


"Part of me believes that Barrin taught me meditation simply to shut me up."
—Ertai, wizard adept

Diluted, moonglove can etch living tissue. Concentrated, a drop will kill a giant.
During Kongming's campaigns against the Wei, his Shu troops rotated from the battlefront to the fields every hundred days.
It entertained Jhoira to craft a kit that could bring her the tools.

Dimir assassins have the precision to slay a single memory.
"What warrior worth the name fears to leave a trail? If my enemies seek me, let them follow the ashes in my wake."

They are drawn by the brilliant blue glint of the mineral lazotep from the mines below.


When it finishes the harvest, you'll have nowhere to hide.
"Imagine having your skeleton extracted through your ear, one bone at a time."
—Corliss the Wanderer
Rishada is the gateway to free trade—but the key will cost you.
The Champion and the philosopher Olexa returned from the opposing camp at dusk. Behind them, the enemy raised sail and departed, breaking the siege. When asked what the two had done, the Champion replied, "We spoke to them."
—*The Theriad*
Its wings disturb more than air.

"As expected, this sphere's design reflects the colors of the four moons . . . plus another?"
—Pontifex, elder researcher
You meant to simply rest in Hundelstone, but the miners have told you stories of whispers in the dark below.
Where she flies, the Light of Starnheim shines.
All the aether charts in the world can't compete with the trained eye of a talented scout.


All who listen hear their own song, a unique melody played just for them.
"Hah. Urza has underestimated my strength yet again."
—Mishra

"Top-performing automaton combatants are to be seized and modified for service."
—Confiscation directive

"Black spirits and white, red spirits and gray,/
Mingle, mingle, mingle, you that mingle may."
—Thomas Middleton, The Witch
"In the drowsy dark cave of the mind, dreams build their nest with fragments dropped from day's caravan."
—Rabindranath Tagore
In the midst of disaster, heroic acts became almost ordinary, and ordinary warriors became heroes.






"Ulamog is dead, and his brood is dying. Some of them just don't know it yet."
—Nirthu, lone missionary

"Show the enemy the true path, and the spirit will yearn to follow it."
—Houn, Jeskai elder

After the attack on the Vantoleone, the fragile balance of power shattered completely, and the city descended into chaos.
It responds with unnatural precision.

"Do not try to negotiate with me, human. You want power? This is the price."
—Ormendahl
Once you have been marked by the merrow, you are not long for their waters.
"This is the end... for all of you!"

By the physical laws of the universe, darkness is merely the absence of light. Necrons can harness the power of other dimensions, where darkness is tangible and moldable.


"Their hopes dashed on our shields! Their victory slashed by our swords!"


"They groaned, they stirred, they all uprose, Nor Spake, nor moved their eyes; It had been strange, even in a dream, To have seen those dead men rise."
—Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"

"There is no age at which you stop learning."
Every sentence in Volrath's prisons ends the same way.

"I'm facing defeat, . . ."
Her heart holds the pain of every soldier she's ever healed.


Llanowar covers a million square miles, yet nobody enters the forest without the elves knowing it.

"So many fools think throwing something away is the same as disposing of it."



The only prince inside this frog is the one it ate.
Extus stood before his alma mater for a moment, remembering first his studies, then his vengeance. At his command, the mage hunters unfolded.
Rishada is the gateway to free trade-but the key will cost you.
"To distract an archmage would take incredible power. But for a simpleton, something sparkly will do."
—Noyan Dar, Tazeem lullmage

"I don't need to have the perfect plan. My foe just has to have an imperfect one."
—Jace Beleren

Sometimes the greatest strength is the strength of conviction.
Clash of sword and cry of beast fall mute when angels sound the call to prayer.



"Life grows everywhere. My kin merely find those places where it grows strongest."
—Nissa Revane
The greatest masters of the craft abandon tools altogether, shaping metal with hand and mind alone.


Entire trees were stripped of their bark and branches by the wurm's writhing path.
The power of a waterfall. The fury of an avalanche. The intellect of a gale-force wind.






Sometimes violent earthquakes, hurtling boulders, and unseasonable dust storms are wrongly attributed to the Roil.

It is unwise to insult the god of the forge. It is also unwise to stand near anyone else who has insulted him.
As elusive as the footprint of a djinn
—Suq'Ata expression
To treefolk's sense of time, ages pass as hours. They stood as witnesses to the apocalypse, the years of which they saw as one cacophonous, ultra-destructive moment.


"We must rely on our own knowledge, not on the dogma of the seekers or the mutterings of the sphinxes."
—Tullus of Palandius



"The treasure in my mind is greater than any worldly glory."
Plate mail, the skin of the chest, the rib cage, the heart—all useless against the mage who can reach directly for the soul.


"Political violence is a perfectly legitimate answer to the persecution handed down by dignitaries of the state."

"Don't look at it! Maybe it'll go away!"
—Ib Halfheart, goblin tactician
Only death breeds in stagnant water.
—Urborg saying
The Wall of Bone is said to be an aspect of the Great Wall in Hel, where the bones of all sinners wait for Ragnarok, when Hela will call them forth for the final battle.
The righteous light of Selesnya is channeled through the devout, striking out to blind the nonbelievers.
To exact his vengeance, Extus needed followers. His infiltrators recruited promising mage-students from the very halls he sought to destroy.

"With his dream of unification fulfilled, Darien became the last king of Kjeldor. Those who followed were known as the kings of New Argive."
—*Kjeldor: Ice Civilization*
The flash of his lance projects the pure radiance of his honor.
Those who hear its roar perish. The lucky ones only feel its fetid breath.
A figure is moved on a map, and the tide of war changes.
It once served a cathar roadwatcher, patrolling the crossways between villages. Its hooves still carry it along the same path.
"Those dragons grow fast. For a while they feed on squirrels and goblins and then suddenly you're missing a mammoth."
—Hurdek, Mazar mammoth trainer
"The unnatural pressures of life in this city are best withstood by lifeforms that adapt with unnatural swiftness."
—Momir Vig


In a shaman's grimy hands, a concoction of dried Skirk Ridge herbs can become the face of panic.

The rumors are horrifying; the truth is worse.

While the root remains, the tree yet lives.



"They groaned, they stirred, they all uprose, Nor spake, nor moved their eyes; It had been strange, even in a dream, To have seen those dead men rise."
—Samuel Taylor Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
Some say Aladdin's third wish was for this ring.


There are many ruins, but there used to be many more.
The indigo dragon gladly traded a bit of its hoard for everlasting moonlight.
He remembers enough of his life to weep for what he has lost.

Space can be a lawless place—far from the praying eyes of electrical inspectors.



These spirits of the air are winsome and wild and cannot be truly contained. Only marginally intelligent, they often substitute whimsy for strategy, delighting in mischief and mayhem.
Wolves that feast on zombie flesh and survive carry the foul diseases of the dead wherever they roam.

"Be like the sea: flow around that which is unmovable; for everything else, crash into it unrelentingly."



From the cracks in the stone, she reads stories of the past. From the swirling vines, she glimpses visions of the future.
"Next to Grace is Reason, and Reason must be retained. If the web of Reason comes unwoven, madness will escape."
—*Song of All*, canto 167
Only the warrior who can admit mortal weakness will be bolstered by immortal strength.
"Let me guess. You thought I was dead."

Other birds collect twigs for their nests. Magpies steal jewels for theirs.


Stand against the crash of the river's rapids and you will know the power of the naiads.



To members of the cult of Erebos, gold-infused tattoos symbolize the inevitable grasp of the god of death.
To protect the alliance between Kjeldor and Yavimaya, they trained in the ways of both.
"They bind us with their laws. We free ourselves with nature's fist."
—Nikya of the Old Ways








They'll attack whatever's in front of them—as long as you tell them where that is.
天使は過去の自分を夢のように思い出していた。自分の歌が牧草地を支えたこと。自分の刃が闇を追い返したこと。自分の翼がずっと自分を運んでいたことを。
"His sacrifice shall not be forgotten. Now toss his body over there with the others."
—Phage the Untouchable
"Zendikar fortifies itself against the Great Threat, making sentries of sky, sea, and stone."
—*The War Diaries*


For Sarkhan Vol, the dragon is the purest expression of life's savage splendor.


Theodar strode the battle lines, snatching swords with his bare hands and casting them aside until all cowered before him.

"There are moments when I feel I could fly like the sunwing. Far away I would soar, but always a golden gale pushes me back."
—Huatli
"Tincture of murkroot and lizard feet? Simple. One that doesn't taste like murkroot and lizard feet? I'm working on it."
No matter how deep you bury it, some evil refuses to stay dead.
"The foot stone is connected to the ankle stone, the ankle stone is connected to the leg stone . . ."
—Song of the Artificer




"See how the statues all have chunks bitten out of them? We're dealing with a basilisk, or I'm a froghemoth."
—Larissa Kyriln, learned warlock
"Look to the north; there you will find aid and comfort." —The Book of Tal
She haunts the streets, wings spread wide, with carrion on her breath and blood in her eyes.
2008 Vintage Championship Winner
One part unstoppable force, one part immovable object.
Most see krakens as wantonly violent, failing to notice their meticulous attention to detail when dismantling a vessel.
Asked how it survived a run-in with a bog imp, the pegasus just shook its mane and burped.



"Great peril demands formidable weaponry."
—Urza

"What a move! Lorehold gets caught flat-footed, and Witherbloom barrels ahead."
—Cremik, Mage Tower commentator




"Your tenacity is admirable. And futile."
—Emperor Aboshan

There is no world where angels fear to tread.
No spot in nature is truly barren.


"We cannot escape change, but with faith and fortitude, we can mold it to our liking."
—Marel, Dawnhart witch
"As equal were their souls, so equal was their fate."
—John Dryden, "Ode to Mrs. Anne Killigrew"
"Krosa the great. Krosa the enduring. Look to the forest, and it will share its bounty."
—Zyd, Kamahlite druid
It teaches *you* to play dead.

It woke to find a vast world in need of a master.
Mourning shifts seamlessly to celebration as she chooses her next suitor.
"Early olive buds? A good omen. Flock of crows? Not so good. Mountain exploding? Bad. Very, very bad."
—Hira, street oracle

"Let's show Vorinclex that progress doesn't always need teeth or claws."
—Malcator, Executor of Synthesis
Few things are truly "lost" at sea.
Cunning warriors and dim-witted beasts alike fall under the church's harsh judgment.

He'll cleave wood and bone alike to carve a path for his allies.
No one is so lost that a faerie can't find them.
"Don't worry. I'm not going to deprive you of all your secrets. Just your most precious one."
—Liliana Vess
The time for training was done. Only one final trial stood between Amin and his place among the honored dead.

The harpies descended without mercy upon Akros, only to find their attack put them within range of the javelineers.


"Wonderful! You got a lion on your first try. Now put it back."
Do not react; anticipate.


"Wonders hide where the trees grow thickest."
—Mul Daya proverb


The least popular goblins get the outer caves.
When the bog ran short on small animals, Ekri turned to the surrounding farmlands.

"If the scalelords are the brains of Dromoka's army, the supply caravans are its beating heart."
—Baihir, Dromoka mage

"Let the forest spread! From salt, stone, and fen, let the new trees rise."
—Molimo, maro-sorcerer
"You're not my quarry, little one. I'm after whatever comes to investigate your cries."
—Kelsien, the Plague
It sees shaped stone and carved wood as mutilations.




"I agreed to light his way as long as he always had my back."
—Squill, Mistford pixie
The imp, unaware of its own odor, paused to catch its breath . . . and promptly died.

To thallids, the whole world is just a pile of mulch to grow saprolings in.
Uncharted depths. Unbounded hopes. Unfathomable mysteries.
Once Mirrodin's brightest hope. Now Phyrexia's cruel champion.
The dead know lessons the living haven't learned.

Elves of the immaculate class weave flora into living creatures—sometimes to endorse an elite warrior, sometimes to create a breathing work of art.

"You can sign, or you can spend your life imagining what might have been yours."



It came as a cruel answer to the farmers' prayers.
"When you have been bitten with fangs of granite, you start to long for the ivory sabers of tigers."
—Norin the Wary


"That didn't happen naturally," said Multani. "Rath's overlay is interfering with the Æther itself."
"You were saying?"
"You are breathing borrowed air."

"When the Kami of Utter Silence passes, walls lose their secrets. Scrolls lose their lessons. Tapestries lose their beauty. Where there was meaning, there is only stillness."
—Sensei Hisoka
"Oh, thank the angels. It's not a werewolf, just a regular wo—"
—Bruno, Ulvenwald guide, last words



For a dozen years the cage had held Lord Ith, but as the Pretender Mairsil's power weakened, so did the bars.
The elves had the edge in guile, skill, and valor. But in the end, only sheer numbers mattered.

"Tzeentch cares not what they were or what they become. Only that they change."
—Kairos Fateweaver


"Um . . . oh . . . what was I saying?"
—Reveka, wizard savant
"I bring a fire to recast all the world."
"We've stumbled upon a network of caves not on our maps. We can only hope it is safe to spend the night."
—Lost Battalion, message to General Takeno
Their lust for battle was so great that they didn't care their enemies wore their own faces.





"Tell me again," said Latulla, raising her fist, "how just one woman held back an entire Keldon platoon."

A hollow dog is never empty. It is filled with thirst for the hunt.
Fusing intelligence with the power of undeath requires inspiration of the darkest kind.
Once the felidar has marked you as prey, there's no point in running.
"May your day never match your expectations."
@-Scriptus Fleen, flectomancer
"What is mana but possibility, an idea not yet given form?"
—Jhoira, master artificer




"How can we outrun the sky?"
—Hadran, sunseeder of Naya

From Razaketh, Liliana gained sway over the living. Weak mortal souls became her playthings.

"Step aside, weakling, or I'll swat you like the bug you are."
"Archons dispense justice according to an ancient, and flawed, premise."
—Nissa Revane
Funerary masks help the newly dead resist the erosion of memory and identity in the Underworld.



"Jund is a wounded world. Beware its searing blood spilling out onto the surface."
—Rakka Mar
He remembers a past of light and healing. But he lives the bitter present—parching salt, scouring wind, and the withering heat of the desert.
When asked how much power is required, Izzet mages always answer "more."
Its laughter drives needles through your mind.



"The so-called barbarians will not respect us for our military might —they will respect us for our honor."
—Lucilde Fiksdotter, leader of the Order of the White Shield

Sensing a plot, Sorin raced to his grandfather's resting-crypt. But someone else had gotten there first.

"Nyx may belong to the gods, but the skies of Theros are ours."


One dwarf on a build team ensures competence. All dwarves on the team ensures brilliance.
"You may enter, but leave those lifeless things of your world behind."
—Modruni, maro-sorcerer
Only in Ravnica do the wolves watch the flock.
"May you shade three generations of seedlings."

"The light of an angel's glance is warm, but her fixed stare blinds and burns."
—Calexis, deacon of the New Order of Serra
After countless attacks on the Salt Road where it passes through the frozen tundra, the Abzan began to refer to the area as Atarka territory rather than Temur lands.


To outrace the griffin
—Kipamu expression meaning "to do the impossible"



The faultless and immaculate castes form the lower tiers of elvish society, with the exquisite caste above them. At the pinnacle is the perfect, a consummate blend of aristocrat and predator.
"She may call herself Kiora but I believe she is Thassa, the embodiment of the sea and empress of the depths."
Rising waters, sinking hope.
In the late stages of a Tyranid invasion, sessile organisms take root in a planet's crust, converting its resources into biomass that can be extracted by the Hive Fleet.





It has two kinds of droppings, neither of which is particularly pleasant.


Scurrying repair bots quietly turned the tide of many battles, patching damaged automatons back into fighting form.





In the gardens of the centaurs, many travelers have mysteriously vanished while admiring the elaborate topiaries.

Beware the fine print.
The essence of life to heal the world.

Fblthp had always hated crowds.


"All right, let's light 'em up!"
—Gerrard
"Once I saw a goblin shouting at a thunderstorm. He lost the argument pretty quickly."
—Wandering mage


Eating those clerics might have been a bad idea.
"My favorite part of getting into the infantry was getting out again."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*

From the moment the first Eldrazi spawn squirmed free, everything on Zendikar took on an adjusted meaning, a new slant toward or away from the waking giants.
"Yotia is my birthright, father. Let me fight for it."



"Like us, the morning fights for survival."


"Every primitive mind has a motive. Easy to find, and eminently exploitable."
—Noyan Dar, Tazeem lullmage



"It's simple, really. If they can't find us, they can't kill us."
In times when freedom seems lost, great souls arise to reclaim it.
"If you can't control your mount, I will control it for you."
—Mirela, Azorius hussar
It may look like soil, but its nature is malice.
A true follower of Tourach took pride in achievement to the exclusion of other concerns.


"Knowledge is no more expensive than ignorance, and at least as satisfying."
—Barrin, master wizard




Krosan druids do not fear death, for they know that nature will only prosper from their passing.
She wished for gold, but not for the strength to carry it.
Developed and tested by researchers at the Consulate's House of Knowledge, these devices allow anyone to see with a visionary's eye.


Sometimes the trash throws you out.
"Water is firmament to the finned."
—Oracle *en*-Vec
Death in form and function.


Forged by a thousand flames.
Sky pirates often leap randomly into the fray and assume there will be something to land on.
"We have visitors? Well, it'd be rude not to give them a traditional Keral Keep welcome."


I tell you, there was so many arrows flying about you couldn't hardly see the sun. So I says to young Angus, "Well, at least now we're fighting in the shade!"


When the guilds cooperate, the guildless celebrate their peaceful society. When the guilds clash, the guildless just try to keep out of the way.
The guard took a midnight shift to earn a promotion. Unfortunately, so did the assassin.

Without a connection of mind and body, magic is just an idea stuck in the head, a word on the tip of a tongue.
"Stand still and try not to look like prey!"
—Skerk Hobnett, wilderness guide

It's not the size of the rock. It's how badly you want to lift it.
Centuries before the first tides of the Quicksilver Sea rose to meet each new sun, Mirrodin's light shone on the golems alone.

Goblins generally have two possessions: one per hand.



Designed by Penny Arcade


In the erupting heart of Bogardan, it's hard to tell hurtling volcanic rocks from pouncing volcanic beasts.

It eats the things that eat the things that are drawn to the light.
The earth's memory is long, its retribution brief.

"Your attack has been rendered harmless. It is, however, quite pretty."
—Saprazzan vizier

Unlike scorpions, the erithizon isn't immune to its own weaponry.

Some protection requires a bit of finesse.



"Swords, to me! We must engage their line to protect our archers and mages. Let no one fail this task!"
"Nothing could ruin such a fine day, Saffi."






"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim."
—Sisay
Capashen riders were stern and humorless even before their ancestral home was reduced to rubble.
In the towering trees of the Samok Stand and the predators that guard them, the might of the Ravnican wild has returned.
"And if I'm lying," he began . . .


The chattering forest fell silent as the otherworldly song began.
The swarm leaves behind a flawless pattern that only occasionally threatens the structural integrity of the wood.

The broken Qal Sisma foothills make poor terrain for cavalry, but a perfect setting for ambushes.



"Is it merchants or is it pirates?"
"It's Talas—there's no difference."
She adopted the weapon of the slave-lord Kazuul, and with it, all his cruelty.

In nature, not a single bone or scrap of flesh goes to waste.



"Let my ignominy build walls thicker than iron and stronger than darksteel."
—Thrun, the last troll




Most soldiers think of the sword as a weapon. In the hands of Zho monks, swords are also the strongest of shields.

It's in the nature of fire to grow.
There were no tombstones in orochi territory. Slain warriors were buried with a tree sapling, so they would become a part of the forest after death.

The Moriok saw the myr as fellow scavengers, never knowing just who the myr were scavenging for.
"I stand for every cobbler, tanner, and fool in this town—and they stand for me."
"Approach my tower on bended knee or depart from it as ash upon the wind."
—Gadwick, the Wizened
In his hunger for power and knowledge, Urza dug deep into Dominaria's ancient past.

"But I signed nothing!"
—Taraneh, Suq'Ata mage

With a sadness and a sense of hope, Senka left the colony of her birth and, with her attendants, set out to serve as broodmistress, founder of a new colony.

"If you've been at this as long as I have, nothing can surprise you. That's the hope, at least."
Cloudy with a chance of chaos.
Each of the twenty-three winds of Esper is named and chronicled, and every possible interaction with the flow of magic is exhaustively detailed.
The bright tunnel sometimes leads back to life.

"Amateur."
"Fyndhorn is our home."
—Kolbjörn, elder druid of the Juniper Order
You carry the security of Baldur's Gate on your shoulders, and you welcome the weight of responsibility.
Many elves incorporate the beauty of nature into their inventions. Very few capture its savagery.
"Sometimes the bulls win, and sometimes the bears win. But the bulls have more fun."
—Anonymous

"In the death of the foe lies the resurrection of the faithful."
The city mourned Niv-Mizzet's death, but he left behind the components for his rebirth.


Inspired by the thorns and brambles of the untamed wilds, elvish armor is both beautiful and formidable.
Riches must be divided, but real wealth can be shared.

It's much easier to list the places they *haven't* been.

Creatures of the Æther are notorious for neglecting their own well-being.


Invented in Mishra's earlier days, the Rack was once his most feared creation.

"My flock flew from a distant continent ruined by cataclysm and war. Benalia gave us shelter to end our exodus."

"By all means, take another step toward the captain."



Where she flies, the Light of Starnheim shines.
"Of all the stars in the Galaxy, Sol is of the Emperor. Its heat is His might. Its light is His revelation."
—*Lectitio Divinitatus*




"Your debt is erased."
—Hilgur, Orzhov euthanist
"So this orb I got back at Spherecon 1993. It looks a lot like the '94 version but it's actually rounder."
By the time Mishra was defeated, no mage was foolish enough to rely heavily on walls.

Before the Great Sleep, the Necrons knew every corner of the galaxy, as only the ultimate conquerors could.

"The dragon is a perfect marriage of power and the will to use it."
—Sarkhan Vol


"The Kolaghan send them at us. We kill and raise them. They fight the next wave the Kolaghan send. It's a neat little cycle."
—Asmala, Silumgar sorcerer


"I find its symmetry pleasing. It rids our world of offensive refuse while disposing of itself."
—Dolomarus, Proctor of the Clean






Dependence on luck is anathema to Kefnet's rigorous studies. Those who hope to escape his maze by chance never succeed.


The first battle of Hefei was Sun Quan's last as a field general. From then on he let his generals command in the field while he directed battle from behind the front lines.
Ambidexterity is common among kithkin. The thoughtweft links the minds of the left- and right-handed, giving each the knack of the other.


"You cannot fight the storm."
"Oh, don't be so dramatic. When your eyes bleed, and your brain leaks out your ears, then we'll talk about lost sanity."
—Braids, dementia summoner
Tolarian apprentices learn to liberate Ætheric energy long before they are taught to bind it.
"Your blood, your marrow, your spirit—all are mine."
—Mayvar, minion of Geth

"Let the knowledge of absolute law inspire you to live a life of absolute order."

"None will concede a place for us in this world. If it is not for us, neither shall it be for them. We rest not until they choke in its cold ashes."
—Illulia of Nighthearth
"With every culling, we bring this world closer to *compleation*."



Followers of Tourach regarded all other religions equally: with open contempt. Not so the followers of Leitbur, who made it their mission to eradicate the Order of the Ebon Hand.

The vines overgrew the construct, snapping gears and soaking up aether.

"It was probably a lousy spell in the first place."
—Ertai, wizard adept








No one knows whether they were named for the disease they carry or for the speed at which they multiply.
The less flesh there is, the more teeth there seem to be.

"A crafter must imbue her weapon with part of her soul—something the Phyrexians are incapable of doing."
—Melira

"Only the worthy may pass."
Ashiok's minions plumb the depths of the ocean and the psyche.


The Agents of S.N.E.A.K.—Spies Nimbly Eluding Adversaries' Knives.



"I alone determine my destiny."



In a duel and taking a lickin' . . .
The goblin word for "flying" is more accurately translated as "falling slowly."
"Life's greatest lessons don't come from focus or concentration. They come from breathing and simply noticing."
—Seton, centaur druid




Summoners of efreeti remember only the power of command, never the sting of regret.
"Whatever Yawgmoth marks, dies. There is no escape."
—Tsabo Tavoc, Phyrexian general
Kongming and Lu Su tricked Wei troops into shooting over 100,000 arrows at them to later use against the Wei at Red Cliffs.

Perfected by the kinetic sculptor Shanti Makam, these self-assembling metal strands can be coaxed into any shape imaginable.


"You hit like a kobold!"
It is not by the blood of dragons that Rashida measures victories, but by the sum of children who no longer wake from nightmares of scales and fire.
Shhh . . .
"As the clans carved out their territories, we saw allies where the Mardu saw only obstacles."
—Yasova Dragonclaw



On the continent of Tazeem, rushing waters plunge through narrow canyons into mist-cloaked lakes.

"I'm not sure which impresses me most, its thoroughness or its intensity."
—Matoc, lavamancer
"As much as I hate water, I *do* love fish . . . ."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight*

Fellowship, the fourth myth of reality: As the tides of war shift, so do loyalties.
"How could I catch her when the trees conspired to stop me?"
"Looks like we're completely outnumbered."
"Lucky for us. I thought we'd be bored."

Upon discovering what had become of her sisters, Sigarda could only weep.





The hammer strikes. The Flame awakens.




"All that concerns me is the vampires' sense of smell and those freezing Nephalian nights."
The Earth herself lends her strength to these walls of living stone, which possess the stability of ancient mountains. These mighty bulwarks thwart ground-based troops, providing welcome relief for weary warriors who defend the land.



The hook makes him feel brave, and the hat makes him feel fancy.

Reinforcements . . . or refreshments?
"Who am I to judge who is deserving and who is not? That is a question for lords, not healers."
"I fight for my daughter, who may not set foot on a battlefield for many years. Remember who you fight for."
"Once, I looked to the mists for wisdom. Now I wish only for understanding."
Gron's mind reeled with possibilities, most of which are best left unmentioned.
One of the first lessons divination students learn is how to recognize the difference between a portent and a simple surface ripple.
"I fear anything with teeth measured in handspans!"
—Norin the Wary

"Let any who doubt the evil of using the ancient devices look at this infernal machine. What manner of fiend would design such a sadistic device?"
—Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi Heretic
"The eerie, wailing Hymn caused insanity even in hardened warriors."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. II*
Every predator is something else's prey.
"Oh, how I love gold. I'd eat and breathe it if I could."
@-Leland, tax collector
The bloom contains no seeds. It's meant only to nourish the forest's inhabitants.
"Like a strain of music: easy to remember but impossible to catch."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight*


"I doubt any Labyrinth Minotaurs still live—but then again, we Minotaurs are stubborn beings."
—Onatah, Anaba Shaman


Inventors have been known to capture gremlins with the intent to release them in a rival's workshop. More often than not, that plan backfires.
It takes off with a roar of superheated wind, startling wild pterons as they survey the ground below.
Home is where the heart was.
He and his pack sing the same mournful song to the moon.


"Hear only the Cabal's voice.
See only the Cabal's way.
Speak only the Cabal's word."
—Cabal mantra


"The centaurs are truly free. Never will they be tamed by temptation or controlled by fear. They live in total harmony, a feat not yet achieved by our kind."
—Ramal, sage of Westgate
The invader hoped he could survive the beast's jaws and emerge through its rotting skin.
His assistants calculate the amount of the tribute. He measures out the punishment for delinquency.
Those who live amid decay must expect scavengers.


"Now is the hour. Ours is the duty. For victory and family—charge!"



"To the unskilled, it appears as blurred patches of distorted light. Few have seen its true form."
—Garruk Wildspeaker


Insatiable, irresistible, and insane.
"Frozen, we watched the funnel pluck up three of the goats—pook! pook! pook!—before we ran for the wadi."
—*Travelogue of Najat*
The minotaurs of the Hurloon Mountains are known for their love of battle. They are also known for their hymns to the dead, sung for friend and foe alike. These hymns can last for days, filling the mountain valleys with their low, haunting sounds.
"The primary weapon is nothing more than light. It shows them what they are, and they burn of their own accord."
—Aurelia
The intricate dynamics of Rundvelt Goblin affairs are often confused with anarchy. The chaos, however, is the chaos of a thundercloud, and direction will sporadically and violently appear. Pashalik Mons and his raiders are the thunderhead that leads in the storm.

"Do you hear that, Sarkhan? The glory of the horde! I made a legend from what you abandoned."
—Zurgo, khan of the Mardu
An elder in one pride, of the Sigiled caste in another.
"Be fearless, for a furious rebirth awaits you."
—Nylea, god of the hunt

"The voice calls me here, yet I see only bones. Is this more dragon trickery?"
—Sarkhan Vol
The flamespeakers of Akros live passionately, devoted to Purphoros and the cycle of destructive creation.

2021 Legacy Champion




Cabal clerics serve two masters: their patriarch and their god.
The land is ever resilient. Should it die, it will be reborn.

"You returned a warrior. . . . Your hair was cut, your eye tattooed with the red triangle of war."
—"Love Song of Night and Day"
During the collision of the shards, entire ways of life disappeared without a trace.

"My faith is stronger than fang, claw, or mindless hunger."

The baloth's instincts boiled, its muscles pulled taut, and its razor-spines bristled, as it turned to face—a runt meepling.
Once you've been dragged down the currents of time, you'll never quite trust your own permanence again.
Soothing whispers invite travelers to step closer, closer, closer . . . until they vanish soundlessly beneath the surface.

"I wonder how it feels to be bored."
—Jhoira, artificer



"We are the hands of the great trees, reaching out to ensnare what threatens their branches."
—Elvish hunter


"Citizen! Your crime has been recorded. Cease movement and await arrest, or further penalties will be immediately imposed."

Mother, sleep / Dream our lives Our roots your soul / Our leaves your bed.


"My greatest creation—me!"

Get in touch with your inner monster.
"Monster or human, my rate's the same."


"I like goblins. They make funny little popping sounds when they die."
—Braids, dementia summoner
The Nightmare arises from its lair in the swamps. As the poisoned land spreads, so does the Nightmare's rage and terrifying strength.
"The war polluted the land, turning what had once been fruitful fields into fetid morasses of mud and rusted corpses."
—*The Antiquities War*

All snakes slither. Only this one soars.
Part feline, part primate, all trouble.
The cathars fell like leaves as Tovolar himself joined the fray.


To some, desecration. To Gix, decoration.


A pirate ship in battle is a storm of activity.



Gold dragons are the greatest of the metallic dragons in size, power, and wisdom, and often take it upon themselves to safeguard mortal communities from evils that might threaten them.

"As the clans carved out their territories, we saw allies where the Mardu saw only obstacles."
—Yasova Dragonclaw
The glow from within looks inviting, but woe awaits whomever finds out who stokes the fire or what simmers in the pot.

Without Embereth's courage, the realm would falter and fall.




It bends not light but mana, aligning its chaotic currents into the sharp angles necessary for the mystic's purposes.

"Oh no. Oh no. Oh no. Oh no, again!"
—Beltstad, cathar recruit, last words



"The Wojek defend the laws. We defend the people."
Golf Sucks Now And Has Always Sucked


Under Drana's leadership, vampires are finding new strength in unity.
"To think that some find sleep a restful state."
—Volrath



"When a werewolf charges, you'll only have time for one shot. Best make it count."
—Captain Eberheart

In their most desperate hour, the elves of Llanowar had one song left to sing.
"A brilliant light can either illuminate or blind. How will you know which until you open your eyes?"
—Asmira, Holy Avenger
Amidst the darkest ashes grow the strongest seeds.



Cabal spies trying to follow the Order's movements are constantly frustrated by tracks that stop dead.


The municipal senate makes extensive use of the thopters, mostly to gather dirt on rival senators.
Nature bends to the witches' call.





"Only the foolish fear foxfire."
—Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order
"I am in my element: the element of surprise."
—Mogai, Sultai scout


Silumgar delights in repurposing the treasures of other clans to serve his own ravenous greed.



"Her people angered Zendikar, and they faced the land's wrath. That is why Nissa is the last of the animists."
—Numa, Joraga chieftain

"Naga shed their scales. We wear ours with pride."
—Golran, dragonscale captain

"I can no longer stand by as these Skirsdag infiltrators rot the church from within. Even the Lunarch Council is compromised. What a fool I've been."
—Odric

Two times the size, four times the smell.


A wizard can be outnumbered but never outsmarted.






"You won't be needing this. Or this. Or these . . ."
Water calls to water, and the world is left exhausted and withered in its wake.
Those who don't learn from their deaths are destined to repeat them.
"The Eldrazi are nothing if not thorough."
—Jace Beleren
Trespassers are welcome to try.


Cries of panic echo along Kessig's narrow ravines as howlpacks herd their prey.
"There are those who do not believe in the existence of the amphin. This seems somehow to be of their own design."
—Gor Muldrak, *Cryptohistories*



Before the battle of Red Cliffs, a supposedly sleeping Zhou Yu allowed his old friend, a Wei advisor, to steal a planted letter forged as if from Wei's two best admirals.
Few of Rath's rivers follow a steady course, so many new channels are carved for them.
"Life ... is not ... a race."

When provoked, a flamekin's inner fire burns far hotter than any giant's forge.
"Are you tired? You look tired."
The bounty on its head is as old as Skysail, but no one has ever tried to collect.


It felt the rumblings of war and uncoiled itself from the depths of the world.
Its back bubbles like a witch's cauldron, and it smells just as vile.

A writhing mass of rot, with sharp claws and a vicious spirit.


The forecast calls for pain.

The call of the sea shapes many souls.


"The forests of this world are unafraid to assert themselves."
—Wrenn

Mercadia City's troops are at their best when they have no enemy to fight.
Ancient carvings in the trees of Krosa glow with power once again.

Every bough, branch, and bramble lashed out in defense of the forest.
The masks float downstream toward the Mirrorlake, where faces arise to wear them.
Initiates once believed defeat was the worst fate possible—a sentiment they quickly abandoned.




The line between dream and death is gauzy and fragile. She leads those too near it from one side to the other.
The gifts of Jund never come without a price.
"Dagsson saw the steam as life-giving—until his followers felt its scalding touch."
—Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi Heretic

For the next week, Park Heights smelled of burnt oil paint and brimstone.
"You can come back once you've learned some manners@-and figured out how to reconstitute your physical forms."



All sounds harmonize with the Worldsoul.


Though imprisoned in Jaspera trees, the elvish gods known as the Einir still whisper through the ages.


"Mammoths may be good to ride on, but they're certainly bad to fall off of!"
—Disa the Restless, journal entry
"Time to show the foe our true mettle."

"Returne from whence ye came. . . ."
—Edmund Spenser, *The Faerie Queene*
"It, uh, fell off a cart?"

"Roll out!"
Nature exists in balance: river and jungle, sky and sea, predator and prey.
The virtues of knighthood are best taught in the field.



When it awoke, it spawned nameless thousands to herald its arrival.
It smarts more than the average bear.
(^17S)180° = (Z->)90°


"We wield death and darkness, powers that make lesser mages tremble in fear."
—Onyx creed

"Selesnya's roots reach deep into the Worldsoul, and we will not be moved."
The Brothers' War scarred the land, but Ashnod left her mark in the bloodlines of those she tortured.

His roots reach deep and grip hard.


"Our glorious infection has taken hold."
—Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite

Entry 653: There's more to Avacyn's madness . . .


Before a woman marries in the village of Sursi, she must visit the land of the Mesa Pegasus. Legend has it that if the woman is pure of heart and her love is true, a Mesa Pegasus will appear, blessing her family with long life and good fortune.




"Crovax seems filled only with shadows," thought Orim. "Where does his strength come from?"

Odric took no joy in violence but neither did he mourn for the twisted things he dispatched. All that mattered were the lives he had saved.
"And the unclean spirits went out, and entered the swine: and the herd ran violently . . . ."
—Mark 5:13
"I used to describe something stable as 'rock solid.' So much for *that* expression."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*

Battle doesn't need a purpose; the battle is its own purpose. You don't ask why a plague spreads or a field burns. Don't ask why I fight.



Immortality is worth any price.




"A minion given over to Tevesh Szat is a stronger minion gained."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"No doubt the arbiters would put you away, after all the documents are signed. But I will have justice now!"
—Alovnek, Boros guildmage
Sensing a plot, Sorin raced to his grandfather's resting-crypt. But someone else had gotten there first.

"To those who can hear it, Gaea's battle song brings power as swift as sunlight and as enduring as the deep roots of the forest."
—Gamelen, Citanul elder


"Dwarven officers were tireless in battle, moving up and down the lines to rally their troops and boost morale."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV*


Sailors have come to regard them as bad luck, for they falsely bring hope of land.


Cast out of Garenbrig for his crimes, Ennor turned to fae magic to fashion the perfect weapon for his revenge.
"Huge walls of ice block further travel. We can't believe they are natural."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry

It hunts with the memory of a long lost herd.
"Dong Zhuo's man, Lu Bu, warrior without peer, / Far surpassed the champions of his sphere."


Beyond pain, beyond obsession and wild despair, there lies a place of twisted power only the most tormented souls can reach.
"What am I looking at? Ashes, dead man."

Consulate-built automatons have a lifetime warranty.
The Sunbriar druids believe that every life begins in its heart and ends under its hooves.

Though less well-known than its army of soldiers, the Boros Legion's mage-priests are as respected by the innocent as they are hated by the ghosts of the guilty.



There are those who draw false comparisons between the tech-magi of the Adeptus Mechanicus and the xenotechnologists of the necron race. There can be no mercy for such heretics.

Hunters of every species on the savannah, silvercoats disdain camouflage in favor of total dominance of the food chain.

"Flying like a bird does not make you as free as one."
—Volrath
The lamps on Wyndmoor Street snuff themselves at midnight and refuse to relight, afraid to illuminate what lies in the darkness.


There is a legend among present-day Dwarves that the Dwarves of Sarpadia will one day return to defend Dwarvenkind against a deadly peril.

The tenderness of a mother. The pity of a mantis.


Felidars that make it through their first year of life can easily live to see a hundred years more.
Tribal rivalries and petty disputes were laid aside at Eladamri's summons.

She can coil a breeze like a string around her finger—or twist it into a noose.
"It hunts grand game for Atarka, and when the time comes, it will become a mighty feast."
—Surrak, the Hunt Caller
Unpredictable as the sea itself, Water Elementals shift without warning from tranquility to tempest. Capricious and fickle, they flow restlessly from one shape to another, expressing their moods with their physical forms.

"When the air burns, only death breathes deep."
—Bogardan mage
The lammasu ruled the velds before the city grew. Now they roam Ravnica's skies, but their ancient enemies have not forgotten them.

"Stay close! It's just a little farther."

A lightning elemental once killed an entire tribe of merfolk—simply by going for a swim.
It's not the size of the rock. It's how badly you want to lift it.






"The cracks widened, the shell crumbled, and Valor spread throughout the land."
—*Scroll of Beginnings*

Your search for a stolen artifact has brought you to the edge of the Mere of Dead Men.
Kavu emerged all across Dominaria, but the first and the strongest came from Yavimaya.
Frozen in fear, the goblins stared upward at the circling hunter—and were promptly eaten by its diving mate.

Ships suspected of carrying Sheoldred's agents have a tendency to drift far off course as they sail through the Voda Sea.




"When the Silent King saw what had been done, he knew at last the true nature of the C'tan, and the doom they had wrought in his name."
—*The Book of Mournful Night*


"Ach! Hans, run! It's the lhurgoyf!"
—Saffi Eriksdotter, last words
His tales are as tall as he is, and only a giant's life is long enough to listen to them all.
"Always carry two spears."
—Mokgar, Kalonian hunter
The accusations spread like hungry flames.

Made to ward off the Grim Captain and silence the lure of undeath.



When killing five just isn't enough.

"Most insects have been drawn to the Mirari. But all that remain in Wirewood are under my care."

The Changer of Ways often sends glimpses of possible futures to his most loyal acolytes, visions that would destroy lesser minds.
The first line of defense against Urza and Mishra, the artifact blast achieved widespread fame until an unlucky mage discovered it was useless on the devices the brothers had already created.

"Want to know your future? Just three mana!"
Coins of the Underworld are shaped from clay funerary masks.


"You've made a splash. Now show me a torrent."
—Uvilda, Prismari dean
"Who'd want to ignite things one at a time?"
—Chandra Nalaar


"Paradox? Eh, we'll worry about that yesterday."
—Edorin, the Timesmith
Do not be so caught up in keeping track of time that you forget to make use of it.


"It has been my experience that disasters like to strike in pairs."


"Another angry mob? When will they learn to leave me be?"
—Terryn, Edgewall outcast





Before wars or weapons, there was anger.

A blazing sun that never sets.
The people of Amrou were scattered by war and driven into hiding. Scouts maintain the beacon fires that signal "return" and "home."
Upon the frozen tundra stand the Kjeldoran Royal Guard, pikes raised, with the king's oath upon their lips.

Even in their mountain fortresses, the Akroans have learned not to anger Thassa.
What is high as a mountain and low as a snake?
—Dal riddle





The vedalken see other beings from a cold distance, as either experimental subjects or objects of study.
The fatal flaw in every plan is the assumption that you know more than your enemy.

"Channel your vitality through me."

All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.
"Zendikar is always angry, though I've never seen that anger so precisely directed."
—Nablus, North Hada trapper
Merchants of the Underworld trade in coins of clay. Gold serves another purpose.

A swirl of light, a whisper through the leaves, and all at once the forest came to life.

The knights are a major attraction at every Lammastide festival. Teams of riders perform daring feats of flight to the delight of all below.
After years of training, the Druid becomes one with nature, drawing power from the land and returning it when needed.
"My quest? Why, to marry Ayara. Or die trying."

The dark times left the peasantry ready to fight with whatever weapons were at hand.
"The ogre had come from out of the blue, so that's where I sent it back."
—Talas wizard

It watches over every absence.
"Her soldiers' hatred for the Goblins is tempered only by their need for what the Goblins alone hold: knowledge of their mountain home."
—King Darien of Kjeldor

"The roads to Koskun Keep are mostly safe these days. Mostly."
—Joskun, An-Havva Constable

"No good will come from what you seek. Turn back now or suffer an ignoble death far from your home."

"Precision is frequently more valuable than force."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*
"While, like a ghastly rapid river, Through the pale door, A hideous throng rush out forever, And laugh—but smile no more." —Edgar Allan Poe, "The Haunted Palace"
As if anyone needed another reason to avoid dark, dank cellars.
As fickle as lightning, as slippery as an eel.




In preparation for the conflict all foresaw, the Golgari called upon an army that had slept for millennia beneath the city.



By guild tradition, any puddle of multicolored light on the cobblestones can serve as neutral ground.





"Think of the locket as a seed you bear, spreading life from Vitu-Ghazi across all of Ravnica."
—Heruj, Selesnya hierophant
"You were defeated the moment you declared your aggression."
—Gideon Jura
"Let us remind these human cattle why they fear the shadows of this world."
—Aldreg, Skirsdag cultist



"When navigating dangerous terrain, one hundred legs are better than two."
For the necromancer barons, killing and recruitment are one and the same.

A trick of the light, though momentary, can still be deadly.

It fears no sword and leaves no bones behind.




"I do not fear death. I know my soul will rise to Starnheim, where I will feast forever among valkyries and heroes. Can you say the same?"

Their language may be a cacophonous agglomeration of chittering snorts and mad barking, but the message they send is all too clear.
"If one harm us, strike them in return. So sayeth the bey."


"I want one."
—Kiora
Obsessed with the pursuit of knowledge above all else, vedalken can appear to be cold and emotionless.
"Even rats hoard their treasures. Are your precious things so different?"
—Izoni
You may break her shield, but you'll never break her spirit.


Bravery shines brightest in a pure soul.
"'I have arrived,' bellowed Brawn, and the plane shuddered."
—*Scroll of Beginnings*


Al-abara simply laughed and lifted one finger, and the carpet carried her high out of our reach.


"For the love of the seven brass gods, it's a city of academics! How are they doing this?"
—Sharaman, Urzan lieutenant

"The foot stone is connected to the ankle stone, the ankle stone is connected to the leg stone..."
—Song of the Artificer
When a strong mind moves, form and energy shift to heed it.


He wanders the Moorlands hoping to one day chop off a head worthy of replacing his own.

Sarkhan was eager to take vengeance on Zurgo until he saw how lowly his old foe had become.

"This little prize will cover your head, your spells, your bets, and your behind!"
—Pashad ibn Asim, Suq'Ata trader
Cho-Arrim righteousness was no match for Benalish combat training.

"I don't know where my destiny lies, but I know it isn't here."
The only sound was the gentle clicking of the Faeries' wings. Then those intruders who were still standing turned and fled. One thing was certain: they didn't think the Scryb were very funny anymore.

"I can't hear them scream, but at least I don't have to listen to them beg."
—Phage the Untouchable
"Each year that passes rings you inwardly with memory and might. Wield your heart, and the world will tremble."
If one of the anointed fails to serve with perfect obedience, the desert is always ready to receive it.

A dragon's scale can be carved into a mighty shield, provided you can procure a dragontooth to cut it.

"The floor of the sea is paved with the shattered remnants of vessels that navigated its surface unwelcomed."
—Thassa, god of the sea
"Let it be known that Ailis Connaut acted with honor and bravery in the defense of the town of Montford, risking her life to scout the enemy's position . . . ."
—Proclamation granting knighthood

2020 Vintage Champion

A heaven-sent vision is like a lantern to guide the way.

"Terribly sorry, but this is a private party, and your name isn't on the list."


"You're Latulla's gift to me, and I always play with my presents."
2011 Vintage Championship Winner
"It's a fine way to travel, if you don't mind the smell."
"Find solace in the sun? Burning, blinding, laying secrets bare? No, solace is found under the blanket of cold."
Each temple is a door to a horrible future.
An ogre's poisonous stench is like fine Kashkaval cheese to the noses lowest to the ground.
Warnis had always felt a glimmer of potential within herself, flickering just out of reach. That night, as the cultists attacked, it became a torrent of power that was hers to command.



Bright as a mirror, dark as the sea.
"What do they see in the throes of panic? I'm not sure I want to know."
—Kezim, prodigal pyromancer

"Look, and see the future."
—Ayli, high priest of the Eternal Pilgrims




"The palace is closed to outsiders."


"O! call back yesterday, bid time return."
—William Shakespeare, King Richard the Second
"They put bars on these noble beasts and then wonder why werewolves target our towns."

"They groaned, they stirred, they all uprose,/ Nor spake, nor moved their eyes;/ It had been strange, even in a dream,/ To have seen those dead men rise."/ —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
"Try, if you must."
"Based on his early work with primal clay, Tawnos refined the rare metals in the earth into self-assembling strands."
—*After the War*
Guarding the ship is the Thornwinds' first concern. Getting along with the locals ranks fourth or fifth at best.
"The wisdom of the elders is just as much a weapon as a sword or spear. We must learn to wield it."
—Ushanti, leonin seer
The only sound was the gentle clicking of the faeries' wings. Then those intruders who were still standing turned and fled. One thing was certain: they didn't think the Scryb were very funny anymore.
Enter and rejoice! The Conclave stands united, open to one and all.


"The worthy shall strive for greatness. Supremacy in life leads to supremacy in the afterlife."
—Monument inscription
"If you want a warm welcome, you'll have to seek it elsewhere."

For the mind-minded mastermind.

"Secrets, like coins, are easy to steal."
"These horn-haters say no gods but theirs exist. I say let him find out for himself—right now!"
—Tahngarth of the *Weatherlight*
The undisputed master of the mountains of Shiv.
The hammer strikes. The Flame awakens.
"The Spirit Crafters sing of all our people. They sing of those lost, of those found, and of those who are yet to be."
—Onatah, Anaba Shaman


"Teferi snapped his fingers, and the viashino started clucking like a chicken. Silly, yes, but exactly the thing we needed to break the stifling tension."
—Jhoira, master artificer
"I am the very soul of battle, but even I would never advise open war with the Conclave."
—Aurelia
It hatches with its ferocity fully grown.


"We've merged your life essence with that of several creatures at once. You're welcome."
—Speaker Trifon


Within a mile of the woodland, you will feel her eyes upon you. Within its borders, you will feel her blade.


The weight of death is heavy but not immovable.




Zhalfir's destiny rings in tempered steel.
—Armorer Guild maxim
Energy surges in Izzet labs are opportunities for experimentation.





"Bows and whips cannot save us from these new horrors of the Mephidross."

"Uh, does anyone have a flute?"
—Rana, Suq'Ata market fool

The druids and the forest are in perfect harmony. They sing the same songs.
Rhonas continued to fight until his last breath and even beyond.
"Harah swung his sword mightily, but still the air held him fast."
—Azeworai, "Kenechi's Dream"
The longer it weaves through the twisted vines of the Tangle, the more it adopts their hidden strength.

"But then . . . oh, but . . . which means . . . which would lead to . . . exactly!"
It's the pinnacle of utter destructiveness.

The very ground yielded to Mishra's wishes.
He vowed he would never rest until he reached his destination. He doesn't know how right he was.


"I have a plan. Actually, I have three."
Rumors quickly spread among thieves about a labyrinth without walls and a prize beyond all measures of worth.
"I see their moral dilemmas. I see their raw courage. I see their self-sacrifice. I see our victory."
"Tusks to splinter skulls. Steel to shatter scale."
—Warhammer inscription
"You will kneel before me, even if I have to split the earth under your feet!"
—Ash Kronor, Keldon warlord

She wept, not from perfect understanding, but from serene gratitude.
Where she flies, the Light of Starnheim shines.
"We are armed with light and steel. Who can stand against us?"
Scholars had puzzled for centuries over the ruins at Tal Terig. Its secrets had always lived within one rune-carved head.
They certainly are.
Nature doesn't walk.

Darkness doesn't always send its minions to do its dirty work.

Avenant's archers are also trained as poets, so that each arrow is guided by a fragment of verse.
Duergars are prodigious workers with long memories. Some still fulfill intricately detailed orders given decades, if not centuries, before.
"The dragon has no pretense of compassion, no false mask of civilization—just hunger, heat, and need."
—Sarkhan Vol
"I got your milk right here!"
"If it is meant to be nothing but a machine," Karn finally asked Jhoira, "why did Urza build it to be like me?"
"With the proper equipment and caution, one can travel anywhere."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
When you've got nothing, you might as well trade it for something else.

Asked how it survived a run-in with a bog imp, the pegasus just shook its mane and burped.

The air was filled with the cracks and snaps of flesh hardening as the new sliver joined the battle.
"This soil knows well the taste of the dead. Give it the hunger for a living meal, and it can become a deadly ally."
—Ezrith, druid of the Dark Hours

She wished for a weapon, but not for the skill to wield it.
" . . . Cao Pi, Cao Rui, Fang, Mao, and briefly, Huan- / The Sima took the empire in their turn. . . ."



To see one is a good omen to the Cho-Arrim.

Visiting a shrine at the start of a journey makes the traveler more likely to finish it.
"The smell of roasted flesh hung over the valley for hours."
—Onean sergeant



The rising tide of Orazca's plunder lifted all ships.
Though no longer attached to the hand, it still holds its adversary in its grasp.




"Avacyn's protection is everywhere. From the holy church to the sacred glade, all that we see is under her blessed watch."


"All warfare is based on deception."
—Sun Tzu, Art of War (trans. Giles)

"Peace hath her victories
No less renownd than war."
—John Milton,
"To the Lord General Cromwell"

There's no telling what an accomplished mage might collect.

"The worthy shall hone a strong body to endure the boundless energies of the afterlife."
—Monument inscription
A mercurial face sows distrust. Distrust reaps a lonely life.
The rumors are horrifying; the truth is worse.


The infamous Ezuri commands the highest bounty the vedalken have ever placed upon an outlaw.

Mages come from far and wide to bathe in its wisdom.



"Everybody but me—CHARGE!"
As the invasion drew closer, Urza's means began to resemble Phyrexia's end.

It promises protection to those in need and proclaims a warning to any who would threaten Ravnican law.
"If I had many lives, I would give them all for Bant."
The Sultai would rebuild the empire on the backs of the dead.

Travelers' tales claim that hydras bite off their own heads to make themselves deadlier.


"I have made Crovax weep; now I will make him scream. The pain will not end, but will bind him to me."
—Volrath

Nothing is safe in the hands of an eight-year-old.

Stand your post for duty. Stand your ground for honor.
"Your unsolicited words enrich us all. Please, continue."
—Yold, professor of cryptorelicology
"We shall forever roam."
—Ayli, high priest of the Eternal Pilgrims
Los elementales de tierra tienen la fortaleza eterna de la piedra y la resistencia de las montañas. En contacto primordial con la tierra que habitan, contemplan las cosas a largo plazo y desprecian la prisa impetuosa de las criaturas mortales de vida efímera.
The path offered by the academy is long and difficult, but those who brave it arrive at wisdom beyond compare.

"Great art can never be created without great suffering."
It *is* the thing that goes bump in the night.
Dust-spiked winds eroded the stones, but the ground where they had stood still holds power.

"No matter how strong, an unarmed fighter is no more than a fool."
Though she is rightly feared, there are relatively few tales of her deeds in battle, for few survive her raids.
The soldiers chopped and chopped, and still the great tree stood, frowning down at them.


Sometimes the smallest things make the biggest difference.

Its hooves strike lightning and the thunder follows quickly after.

"What we call magic is nothing more than hope crystallized into a destination."
—Perisophia the philosopher
Only after the townsfolk had drawn us into their merry celebration did we discover that their holiday rituals held a deeper purpose.

"Surely it won't notice if I take—"
—Theria the Sly, last words

"Now caged in Winter's bitter chill, Our people cry, their voices shrill— Eternal cold breaks down their will."
—*The Dynasty of Winter Kings*
Those who die as heroes are permitted to dwell in Ilysia, a protected realm of the Underworld as tranquil and vibrant as the rest is bleak.


Moss-covered statues littered the area, a macabre monument to the Basilisk's power.



"The ancient kor were a clever bunch with a taste for nasty traps. Spikes, poison, fire pouring forth with no warning . . . I've seen and disabled them all. If you intend to raid a Skyclave, you'd be wise to hire me on."

It marks the border between here and hereafter.
Ugin's whispered summons led Sarkhan Vol to the moment that would echo down the centuries and seal Tarkir's fate: the primal battle between Ugin and Nicol Bolas.
Though buried and muffled, nature's whisper still called to Nissa.
Instructors at the Kasarna training grounds are capable healers in case their students fail to grasp the subtleties of combat.
"Sit."
"The power of the woods is only ever borrowed."
Odric took no joy in violence but neither did he mourn for the twisted things he dispatched. All that mattered were the lives he had saved.

They stay on the battlefield only long enough to consume the losers.



The crocodile's failed attack left it feeling both hungry and sheepish
Don't try to outrun one of Dominia's Grizzlies; it'll catch you, knock you down, and eat you. Of course, you could run up a tree. In that case you'll get a nice view before it knocks the tree down and eats you.
Selesnya guildmages do not sleep so the rest of the Conclave can.






"Pray that night is upon us, for if this twilight is the work of the Necrons, we are all dead men."
—Address by Lieutenant Krakow prior to the Bloodmoon Massacres




History has buried its treasures deep.

A lawmage's runic script is an act of governance given form: legislation written directly onto the air itself.






"Tie a mouse under a bridge, and your cabbages will triple in size."
—Kithkin superstition

「大蛇の親切は決して拒否してはならない。それは二度と施されることがないのだから。」
—-ドルイドの写本の欠片



Her webs, spun from her own hair, reach from Nyx to the mortal world and even into the Underworld.
Alara's burning blood cannot be contained by mere earth and stone.




"Three tries to decide your fate! Fabulous prizes! Probably no untold torment!"


"Geralf's prowess continues to grow. He can now replicate my own creations with near-perfect accuracy."
—Ludevic's laboratory notes




"You're in for a nasty butt-kickin'."

The wise always keep an ear open to the whispers of power.


The seat of Belzenlok's power, the Stronghold serves as the gathering place for the Cabal as their dark influence spreads from Urborg.





Both his rank and his scars were earned in single combat against a cave bear.

After a long hibernation, Argoth began slowly recovering from the ravages of war.




Kolaghan blades rarely stay clean for long.
"I am not Raksha. I never will be. But I refuse to be the kha who watched her pride be torn asunder."

Only the warrior who can admit mortal weakness will be bolstered by immortal strength.
"For the sake of the Multiverse, I will keep watch."
"Knowledge is cruel. It will break your heart and test your allegiances. Are you certain you want this curse?"


Not a single rat has been seen in Istfell since the gods moved in.


The limbs of Pendelhaven extend as far as the meek roam, and reach as high as they strive.

The power of long-forgotten empires still pulses in the earth of Dominaria, giving rise to strange, mana-rich pockets of growth.
Many have heard the slither of dragging armor and the soft squelch of its voice. But only its victims ever meet its icy gaze.

"Four parts molten bronze, yes … one part frozen mercury, yes, yes … but then what?"



When Captain Nebula tragically destroyed the planet Blorb-12 in a parking accident, Myra compensated the survivors with lifetime passes.


The body grows stronger under stress. The mind does not.

"The young come to me, confused. They have been taught to respect the kami, and now they must fight them? I do not know what to say."
—Sachi, to her father
Jamuraa's rhystic mages treat magic as their garden, uprooting unwanted spells as bothersome weeds.

Forged out of flowstone for the queen of Vesuva.
"On dark nights you can still see the light of the Vess girl's lantern out in the Caligo, seeking her lost brother. Those who follow are doomed to join her endless search."
—"The Fall of the House of Vess"


With or without witnesses, the suns continued their prismatic dance.

No battle means more to a Mardu warrior than the one that earns her war name.


Within her battalion she was known as the Angel of Arkvale. Until now, that was only a metaphor.




"Grief-struck, she weeps for each mortal's final death."
—Psemilla, Meletian poet




They wondered at the size of it. It wondered which to eat first.
It is what it eats.
"Taking down a dragon is easy. All you need is enough space to get in a good swing."
—Narbulg Nine Fingers

If you feel the ground quake, run. If you hear its bellow, flee. If you see its teeth, it's too late.

Between jagged, snowcapped peaks, the dense bands of hardy evergreens provide the perfect cover for roving bands of orc and goblin raiders.
If you want to wreak havoc above, sometimes it's best to look below.


Every action has a foreseen purpose.




"If we didn't guard our secrets, they wouldn't remain secrets for long."
—Gadwick, the Wizened
No one is so lost that a faerie can't find them.

"I will keep watch."
The Champion stood alone between the horde of the Returned and the shrine to Karametra, cutting down scores among hundreds. She would have been overcome if not for the aid of the temple guardians whom Karametra awakened.
—*The Theriad*
The calligraphy of combat is written with strokes of sudden blood.
You're too busy recoiling in fear to realize that it's already hit you.


A drop of blood spilled from the first dragon.
"The centaurs are truly free. Never will they be tamed by temptation or controlled by fear. They live in total harmony, a feat not yet achieved by our kind."
—Ramal, sage of Westgate
"Forge the future in metal and oil!"
The mysterious purpose of two of the rings had eluded Esper mages—until now.
Among wizards, poor timing is the most consistent mistake.


"It appears some mummies have begun to observe a hierarchy all their own."
—Elekh, vizier of embalming
Its hunting instincts have long since rotted away. Its hunger, however, remains.

"I'll wring out your tiny mind like a sponge."
—Urborg witch


The rivers can no longer provide safe passage for travelers and commerce. They serve only as highways for raiders and channels for blood and woe.
"Time and space are just new battlefields to be mastered."



At the Akroan gates, hoplites revived the tactics of Kytheon Iora's infamous irregulars.
Automatons could be rebuilt. Powerstones could not.
"The quieter the skies, the calmer the mind."
Chainer dreams of ultimate knowledge.





The militia formed up in the central plaza awaiting the onslaught, but the giants never quite made it.
Its wings disturb more than air.
"Kjeldorans should rule supreme, and to the rest, death!"
—Avram Garrisson, Leader of the Knights of Stromgald

"If I ever need a haircut, I just fall a little to the left."

It's bigger than it thinks.
Itself a product of Ixidor's tortured psyche, the chisel brings his darkest dreams to life.
"I am the purifier, the light that clears all shadows."
—Seal inscription


Efforts to use them as spies failed when they kept reporting to the enemy.
"They won't see your shadow or hear your breath, but they will feel your blade."


"The time for subtlety is over, darling."
"Sometimes it's best for the lost to stay lost."
—Herzag, mayor of Havengul






The Order of the Skyward Eye does the bidding of an evil force, unwittingly stirring fear and mistrust across Bant in accordance with his plans.
Even more than carrion, they crave the last words of the dying.
The weight of this magic weapon falls heavy on the wicked.

As Jhoira restored the *Weatherlight*, a mushroom growing in its hold unexpectedly became her first crew member.



Just as the evil ones approached to slay Justina, she cast a great spell, imbuing her weapons with her own life force. Thus she fulfilled the prophecy: "In the death of your savior will you find salvation."

"Be careful in your hunt. The clever little creature can steal your wards and lead you right into the werewolf's den."
—Britta, midwife of Gatstaf
"What tries to crush our spirit only strengthens our resolve."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain
"They seek to break us. Let us show them our strength!"

"It's truly the highest honor, isn't it? To be remembered? Pity for you."
Sleeping in brambles
—Elven phrase meaning "plagued by guilt"





Its predecessors were etched with the wisdom of ancients; its own etchings bear warnings of a future fraught with war.

In a withered world, the scent of healthy prey is enough to drive a predator to frenzy.
Jund's thallids tried to disguise their deliciousness by covering themselves in spines harvested from the tukatongue tree.
"It blinked, and flower petals fell like tears. Harthar, sensing weakness, attacked—and his blood fell like petals."
—Shesul Fass, faerie bard


Sentience is its natural habitat.




When you get into the swamp, the swamp gets into you.

"I do not teach. I simply reveal."
—Daudi, Femeref tutor
Gods can be appeased. Demons, however . . .
"Once cast, a spell can be undone. But once revealed, a secret can never again be kept."
—Pontifex, elder researcher
They say the Zombie Master controlled these foul creatures even before his own death, but now that he is one of them, nothing can make them betray him.
"Trust me, we won't need torches."

Tall as a tree and probably related.


If you fear the dragon's fire, you are unworthy to wield it.

The traditional kings of the jungle command a healthy respect in other climates as well. Relying mainly on their stealth and speed, Savannah Lions can take a victim by surprise, even in the endless flat plains of their homeland.
As the phantom flies overhead, the city of Vhelnish screams in silence.
For a moment, it seemed as if Powder's invention had really worked.
As Barrin exhumed his daughter's body, he finally realized the full price of his faith in Urza.
All are prey to the eyes of the wild.
Closing time comes earlier to some than to others.
"Remember the fable of the elf who came upon a cave of gold. In trying to free the largest piece, she was crushed by its weight."
—Karn, silver golem
In its lair lies a carpet of bones.



Burning something is easy. Choosing a target can be more difficult.
"And the unclean spirits went out, and entered the swine: and the herd ran violently . . . ."
—Mark 5:13
Hers is an ancient form of necromancy, steeped in shamanic trance and ritual that few skaberen or ghoulcallers comprehend.
"They say a Zhalfirin archer can split the eye of a griffin. Nonsense, of course: they have no faith to guide their darts."
—Nuru, Femeref archer


Its spines act like the teeth of a saw, scoring distinctive marks in the vegetation of its territory.
Might doesn't make right, but it does win the fight.
The faultless and immaculate castes form the lower tiers of elvish society, with the exquisite caste above them. At the pinnacle is the perfect, a consummate blend of aristocrat and predator.

"Whatever hatred destroys, a single act of trust can revive."









Masters of the arcane savor a delicious irony. Their study of deep and complex arcana leads to such a simple end: the ability to say merely yes or no.

"My favorite part of getting into the infantry was getting out again."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*
"There's wisdom to be gained in death—whether it be one's own or someone else's."
—Jarad, Golgari Lich-Lord

"He is Yawgmoth's reward to me. I shall kill him a hundred times a day."
—Crovax, to Ertai




"If you're so mighty, scaled one, then why are you dead?"


"Loss has no meaning here. You cannot take from those who have nothing."


The same devices sold as surgeons' tools in Lumengrid are sold as implements of torture in Mephidross.



"This species has grown to be my preferred receptacle for our divine message."
—Sheoldred, Whispering One
The Neurok buried entangling cables just under the Quicksilver Sea. One seastrider harvest can provide an army's worth of armor and shields.
Zendikar's seas are deeper than anyone can fathom.
As the hyperstormic generator crept past redline, a being emerged from the arc.
"I have seen the true path. I will not warm myself by the fire—I will become the flame."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"They never tire, they never complain, and they never ask questions. Build more."
—Ivash, Consulate inventor
Once a pariah, now Mirrodin's greatest hope.

After large sections were clear-cut to build Towashi, the once-peaceful Jukai Forest grew violently hostile to outsiders.


"You will do the thinking for the both of us!"


"It was a bad evening for you, mate. Now it's chow time for the sharks."

A truly symbolic advantage.


Kor have no concept of exploration. They return to homelands forgotten.




A ray of hope breaks through the shroud of rain.

"Swords cannot reach far enough. Chains cannot strike hard enough. An eternal dilemma, but a simple one."

"The Izzet may incite war, but my duty is here. I will not abandon the wild."
These beings embody the essence of true heroes long dead. Summoned from the dreamrealms, they rise to meet their enemies.


"Whether whole or not, still we serve Lim-Dûl's wishes."
—Chaeska, Keeper of Tresserhorn





"I like to think of him as concentrated barbarian."
—Kamahl, pit fighter
Though no longer attached to the hand, it still holds its adversary in its grasp.

"The enlightenment I never found in etherium I have found traced in the coatl's scales."
—Ranalus, vedalken heretic



Honor the gods of Theros, and they will return the favor.
The hymn's melody has persisted since Tourach's time, but the words changed to invoke the phobias of each listener.
"My whisper becomes a thousand roars."
The elite guard of the Mesa High Priests, the Ivory Guardians, were created to protect the innocent and faithful. Some say their actions are above the law.
"I won't abandon the *Weatherlight*. My destiny is to serve at Jhoira's side. This 'illness' means I must trust my faith more and myself less."

"Remember, students, if it's glowing, humming, or whirring, don't touch it!"
This is not a subliminal message.
"Spend too much time scanning the shadows for evil and you'll never see the beauty our world has to offer."
—Katilda, Dawnhart Prime

The spires of Ravnica are no different from the tall trees of other planes. The elves navigate and protect them just the same.



Bright as a mirror, dark as the sea.
"My skills are wasted here."
—Juruk, Kalonian tracker
"Thallids could absorb energy from the forest itself. Even elves were at a disadvantage in fighting them."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. III*
The fires of Zendikar are always hungry, and there is much on which they can feed.
Not every intelligent being is interested in treasure and lost knowledge . . . or even the basics of speech.
After much arguing, the soldiers decided to keep it, on the grounds that it killed enough mice to count as an honorary monster slayer.
Death is no excuse for disobedience

Sigarda was the last uncorrupted archangel, but she would not have to fight alone.

The clicks and buzz of the undercity proclaim him the incarnation of decay.

Don't worry, they want you to smash them.


A single germ can kill more soldiers than ten thousand blades.
"The tyrant's bellow of rage trailed off into a whimper as the last of his fortune escaped his grasp."
—*The Dethroner's Grimoire*


"For their courage, the griffins were granted domain over all the desert skies."
—Afari, *Tales*
Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.
"What you made will be unmade. What you learned will be unlearned. And when you're done, you will be undone."
—Ambassador Laquatus

The path to unity is forged in understanding.
"What is taking them so long to fill the waterskins?"
—Mwani, Mtenda goatherd
Hill giants are mostly just big. Of course, that does count for a lot.

"How can you claim the gods are merciless when they robbed the snake of its limbs to give the other creatures a sporting chance?"
—Hakim, Loreweaver

"What the . . . ?"

True power is achieved through blood and sweat. But mostly blood.


A dozen fighting for each other are worth a thousand fighting for themselves.


"Tincture of murkroot and lizard feet? Simple. One that doesn't taste like murkroot and lizard feet? I'm working on it."
The essence of red dragon burns within, always ready to rise with wrath.
Villagers cloaked the town in magical silence, but their ears still bled.
"Life, be my shield."
By the time Mishra was defeated, no mage was foolish enough to rely heavily on walls.


"My sword is pledged to the defense of this city, not to the throne or this usurper."


"Let the land dwellers know the coast is no longer the border between our realms. A new age of empire has begun."

After the awakening of the Eldrazi, some vampires took it upon themselves to remind the others where their loyalty should lie.

A heart of light and a soul of darkness cannot coexist.



"Knowing its origins, how could they have thought they could control it?"
—Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi Heretic





"Groveling already? I'm just starting to enjoy myself."
"Soulless demon, you are bound to me. Now we will both dwell in oblivion."
Eidren, perfect of Lys Alana, ordered hundreds of trees uprooted and rearranged into a pattern he deemed beautiful. Thus the Gilt-Leaf Wood was born.
Nearly all sets of Kor twins are trained as lancers.


He does not tolerate intruders.


Enter and indulge your darkest fantasies, for you may never pass this way again.
Spitting is the customary greeting between a creature and its magical impostor.




No guts, no glory.
"An angel appeared in the smoldering skies above the fray, her clothes as flames, her armor as fire."
—"Hymn of Angelfire"
The worst thing about being a depraved pirate is having to work with a bunch of depraved pirates.









A heart of light and a soul of darkness cannot coexist.
Lungs dried to parchment wheeze blasphemies within a cage of bleached bone.
"Her quest began as all quests do, with one small step in an unexpected direction."
—*The Explorer's Testament*
"Let's do it again!"
—Squee, goblin cabin hand
"The wild are neither your thralls nor your amusement."
Where dragons once roared, their bones now keen.


"Try to pretend like you understand what's important."

"Nature is a mutable cloud which is always and never the same."
—Ralph Waldo Emerson, *Essays*


"You can tell something's really valuable by the sound it makes when you slam your staff into it."
Don't try to outrun one of Dominia's Grizzlies; it'll catch you, knock you down, and eat you. Of course, you could run up a tree. In that case you'll get a nice view before it knocks the tree down and eats you.
When goblins blow themselves up, it's called stupidity. When humans do, it's called heroism.

"Deal with the spawn of Phyrexia cautiously; only with time may we control them."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist

He has journeyed where none have been before. Now he returns to ensure that none follow.


"If wisdom is a river, then we cup our hands, reach in, and drink from it in sips. The kami, however, are like fish, swimming, breathing, surrounded in its presence."
—Dosan the Falling Leaf
"Justice is toothless without punishment. Righteousness cannot succeed without the suffering of the guilty."
—Razia, Boros archangel
"You hit like a kobold!"

Rumor holds that powerful artifacts and untold wealth are hidden away in Ramazith's Tower, and today you plan to find out for yourself.

"One alone is fearsome; one among many is unstoppable."
—Benalish proverb
"Our foes are many and mighty, but not as many as the trees or as mighty as the sea."

"Our ancestors brought down a Phyrexian portal ship, then built our town on its hull. We're pretty proud of that."
—Alene of Riverspan
What walks on four legs in the morning, two legs in the afternoon, and three legs in the evening?
"It's not that I didn't expect some defiance, but I did hope it wouldn't be so heavily armed."
—Olivia Voldaren
The smallest seed of regret can bloom into redemption.


"Fools dig for water, corpses, or gold. The earth's real treasure is far deeper."
Astride the bucking creature, Gribble hurtled down the mountainside while his Grotag brethren cheered. It was at that moment that legend of the Skrill Tamer was born.
"If you hear a groaning noise in the cellar, don't investigate. Don't split up. Just lock the door and barricade it."
—Emili, guard captain


Few puppets are so willing.
When a dragon attacks, there are no bystanders.

Beneath the gaze of angels, only the righteous may stand without fear.


Many attempt to speak with nature. Selvala speaks less, and nature answers more.


Count carefully the souls and see that none are lost.
—Vec teaching


A dragon's loyalty cannot be earned, but it can be bought.

Unlike previous conflicts, the war between Urza and Mishra made Dominia itself a casualty of war.
"Oooooh!"
—The crowd
"Aaaaaaaaah!"
—Also the crowd
"Every scratch tells a story, and every notch has a name. Four generations have held this blade. You shall not disappoint them."
—Initiation of Laena, skyhunter

Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.

"Whimsy overflow in sector G! The gremlins are rampaging and the beebles are on fire!"

"Ever onward, ever skyward."
"Charge!" A great cry went out, and countless elves and Vec soldiers charged up the mountain. Their fury and passion hid the fact that they were horribly outnumbered.

"Accursed scarecrow! Sending folk in every direction is the same as sending them nowhere at all."
—Corliss the Wanderer

"Whatever ails you, friends, this will cure it for tonight! And leave you with a little inspiration for tomorrow."



"The beauty of mental attacks is that your victims never remember them."
—Volrath


"Think of this new life not as a gift from the angels but as a command to fight for their cause once more."
—War blessing of Serra
"On our thirty-fourth day of digging, we unearthed a chamber that contained the intact remains of several species long extinct from Grixis. One in particular should make a fine siege engine . . . ."
—Last notes of Shungus Nod, fleshcrafter

"I think Chandra just wanted something to blame random scorch marks on."
—Jace Beleren

"One alone is fearsome; one among many is unstoppable."
—Benalish proverb

The more who rely on him, the more resolute he becomes.
Going down with the ship is just the beginning.
In the end, death usually has its way.


The more deadly the lake monster, the shorter the tale.

The earth cannot hold that which magic commands.

"Rage! Rage until the whole world burns!"


"The path of least resistance will seldom lead you beyond your doorstep."
—Oracle *en*-Vec

www.MagicTheGathering.com
"I was shocked when I first saw the aftermath of the Yavimaya Valley disaster. The raging waters had swept away trees, bridges, and even houses. My healers had much work to do."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran Priest

The greatest gift you can give a sea aven is solitude.
A family that welcomes birds of all feathers.
Its fangs are in your flesh before its hiss leaves your ears.
An unlikely jail for an impossible inmate.

In their final moments, the demons gazed upon grace in its purest form.
The Simic created the cells to preserve their experiments. The Azorius put the cells to use on the guilty.
On the volcanic continent of Akoum, bizarre vegetation clusters around gas vents, and jagged mountain peaks rise high into the air.

Don't trust your secrets to the sea.
In times of portent, the land sculpts itself in accordance with the sigils burned on the sky.


When the Honden of Life's Web was destroyed, its attendants swarmed Kamigawa to ensure mortal defeat.
Sometimes a curious giant singles out a "little one" to follow for a few days, never realizing the effect it will have on the little one's life.
"Jayce Talis, you are accused of illegal experimentation and endangering the citizens of Piltover."
—Cassandra Kiramman

"My children will rule over all!"









"Her hunger knows no limit. Left unchecked, she would feast on all of Tarkir."
—Yasova Dragonclaw

"Looks like we've found the source. Torch it quick, before anything crawls out."
—Sergeant "Ripper" Jackson


"Lightning lives in everything, in living flesh and growing things. It must be set free."
—Rakka Mar




"Clever folk build their homes near cloudcrowns. If a hawk or even just a faerie tries to swoop in, it'll get swatted from here to Cloverdell."
—Calydd, kithkin farmer






"As I desire, so it shall be."
—Nicol Bolas

Young, yes. Inexperienced, yes. Weak? Don't count on it.





"The fools have done it."
—Tishana
Wolves and werewolves join together for the common cause of the hunt.


Charm and grace may hide a foul heart.

"Souls are volatile things. When compressed and loaded into a handheld device, their destructive potential is quite impressive."
—Dierk, geistmage
It puts the "vortex" in "flavortext."

You can hear their tolling only when your debt is due.
Bloodfire practitioners train to focus their rage, building it deep inside themselves until they are ready to release it as a devastating attack.
The Free City of Nimana is a great place to recruit adventurers with shady skill sets.
"I hope it's true that every snowflake is unique, because I never want to see one like this again. Now clean up that body."
—Thangbrand Gyrdsson, Kjeldoran patrol

"The Ancestor protects us in ways we can't begin to comprehend."
—Mystic elder

There are medicines for all afflictions but idleness. -Suq'Ata saying

It carries the hopes of Zendikar's embattled wilds on its mighty boughs.


"The natural world has already solved our problems. Our challenge is to replicate the elegance of its solutions."
—Tawnos


Rushed repairs once sent a thopter back to combat with a mechanic's still-warm lunch in the gunner's seat.
Gjornersen entertained his followers by taking bets on which would move first—the drowsing land wurm or the frozen goblins.
Her roots connect her to the forest's wishes.


In life, it was a fetid, disease-ridden thing. In death, not much changed.




"Your presence at the palace this evening is required."
—Letter from Queen Marchesa
"This world will be ruled by its rightful sovereigns, not these hideous pretenders."







"The dead make good soldiers. They can't disobey orders, they never surrender, and they don't stop fighting when a random body part falls off."
—Nevinyrral, *Necromancer's Handbook*
"Trained to battle the followers of Tourach, the Order of Leitbur was not as successful in later conflicts with Orcish and Goblin raiders."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. I*

"This area is off-limits to you."

"The perfect assistant is one that's responsive, dextrous, and capable of reaching all the high shelves."
—Coruk, Esper artificer
"Ah, I remember my first death."
—Zarkuu, necrosavant


Few other creatures so closely embody Murasa's rapid cycles of growth.
A wolf without a pack is either a survivor or a brute.


The undisputed master of the mountains of Shiv.
Mounted cinders circle the blasted peak at Kulrath, hunting the Extinguisher.
"Many scales make the skin of a dragon."
—Abzan wisdom




Crime sometimes makes unlikely allies into lifelong friends.








"Thraben is our home and I will not see it fall to this unhallowed horde."


Goblins are more aggressive with a crowd to cheer them on.

It has witnessed history's most significant events, one incarnation after another.



"North and South meet and angels sing. Voices resound with a righteous ring."
—"The Ballad of the Paladins"



Icatia's once-peaceful towns faced increasing attacks from orcs and goblins as the climate cooled. By the time the empire fell, they were little more than armed camps.





"Any dream is a robust harvest. Still, I prefer the timeworn dreams, heavy with import, that haunt the obsessive mind."


The Sultai distinguish between pet and slave by the material of the chain.


He raged at the world, at his family, at his life. But mostly he just raged.

A devil's hands are never idle.


Noggles live purely by what they can scavenge. There is not a single thing a noggle eats, wears, or uses that did not once belong to another.
"Just let him loose and follow the charge."
—Yikaro, Atarka warrior


"Canyons in the Phoberos badlands are essentially gates to the Underworld."
—Mirinthes, Akroan captain
"Let all feel joy in pain."
@-Rakdos
MOCTODSDR
AZIWTAXAM
EELG
Neither hostile nor friendly, pixies flit through the forest seeking the treasures of the wilds.


"I will soar higher than the walls of Akros! Higher than the clouds! Higher than Heliod himself!"

"There are so many of them. It seems they've just been waiting for someone to serve."



After lightning struck the cliffs, the ore became iron, the iron became steel, and the steel became greaves. The lightning never left.
"These kids today with their collector numbers and their newfangled tap symbol. Twenty Black Lotuses and twenty Plague Rats. Now that's *real* Magic."

"The true dishonor for a soldier is surviving the war."
—Telim'Tor



Still and solemn as the statues of her kind that decorated the Park Heights rooftops, she gazed in sorrow on the city below.
A spiteful force exists on Ravnica that binds these ghosts to the land of the living but forbids them to touch it.
Though a completely artificial species, primocs are a natural fit for the skies of Otaria.

"That performance was truly the pits."
—Jetmir


Her armor and steed were borrowed, but her courage was hers alone.



The shadow that fell over the grove was silent yet horribly alive, roiling with millions of tiny minions dedicated to the process of rot.
Another piece of a nefarious puzzle.
"I can tell you what you wish to know. But first, there is the matter of my fee."





"I adore your outfit. It's so . . . rustic."
A rock between your eyes hurts. A burning rock between your eyes ruins your whole day.
"Let's just broaden its surveillance lens."

Little dreamt could seem so cruel As waiting for the wings outspread, The jagged teeth, the burning eyes, And dagger-claws that clench to nerves.

"The gods used their feathers to paint all the colors of the world."
—Yare-Tiva, warden of Gramur Forest
"Memnarch or the vedalken salvage most of the large machines, leaving us only scraps. Scraps are enough."

"Let any who doubt the evil of using the ancient devices look at this infernal machine. What manner of fiend would design such a sadistic device?"
—Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi heretic


Slow and steady may not always win the race, but at least it doesn't end up splattered on the walls.
"There are times solid ground gives precious little comfort."
—Talibah, embermage




Gryffid found his way home and resumed life as best he could, constantly hiding his newfound fear of clouds.

It has the strength of seven men. In fact, it used to be seven men.

"Even if I should die in the saddle, she will not let me fall to the ground."
—Hypatia of the Winged Horse
"And in their blind and unattaining state their miserable lives have sunk so low that they must envy every other fate."
—Dante, *Inferno*, trans. Ciardi
"Bits of fallen scarecrow, laces of elfskin leather, teeth of an axeshark merrow . . . An industrious soul can find new uses for the most mundane items."
—Mowagh the Gwyllion

Your parents taught you that strength can be nurtured and honed, no matter one's size.
"Truth is a straight, keen edge. There are no soft angles or rounded edges. To fight for truth, we must forge in steel."
It spins its web throughout the undercity, strange growths sprouting in its wake.
"Fire cleanses as well as destroys; that is the nature of change."
—Oracle *en*-Vec

Silverstreak had lost her rider, but not her instinct to help humankind.

"You will learn to earn death."
—Volrath



"To be honest, I'm not quite sure what's going to happen."
—Renna, Selhoff alchemist

"With fire he broke the battle at Bowang . . . . Striking fear deep into Cao Cao's soul, thus Kongming scored a coup at his debut."

Bred as living shields, these slivers have proven unruly—they know they cannot be caught.

"We decide who is worthy of our works."
—Gix, Yawgmoth praetor


"Each of them is my child, and no harm will befall them while I yet breathe."
The best swords are forged with dragonfire.


Hate is an everlasting wellspring from which it is eternally sustained.

"They say perfection is unattainable, but they said that about flight too."
Come to these woods and suffer no pain; you've burdens to lose and new life to gain.
"When the forest walks, it's too late to run."
—Horent, Khalni druid
"I'll fight no more just for the honor of dying. The afterlife will have to wait."




The air hummed with the scissoring sound of uncounted blades that hovered in front of the invaders as though wielded by a phalanx of unseen hands.

"Does a serpent roar and chase its prey? No. A serpent waits silently for oblivious prey to draw near."

There's no race like gnome.

"May the memory of our fallen heroes ensnare the violent hearts of lesser men."
—Great Threshold of Monserkat inscription





He watches in silence as the shadows shift, bringing Amonkhet ever nearer to the Hour of Revelation.


On countless frontier worlds, below silica sand, blasted chalk, or bubbling marsh, slumbering Necrons await.




The Pretender Mairsil ordered a great calendar drawn up to show when the paths to the Dark Lands were strongest.


The impact sent the soldiers scattering—then something came out of the crater.
"Should a single drop take hold, the oil begins to consume organic tissue and will multiply until it overwhelms its host."
—Yawgmoth, collected writings
A mercurial face sows distrust. Distrust reaps a lonely life.
"I am the Arch-fiend, the Despoiler of Worlds, and by my hands shall the false Emperor fall."
—Abaddon the Despoiler








"The subject's wings are clearly vestigial. We suspect the gems somehow keep it aloft."
—Tolarian research notes
From within its prison, the book endlessly whispers words of cruelty and spite.
"This heresy cannot stand!"
"Glok loved storms! He'd sit an' watch an' laugh through the whole thing. I miss him."
—Squee, goblin cabin hand



Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.
Priests of the Sigardian Sect travel to the farthest reaches to spread hope and healing, even in the darkest times.
The crumbling temples on the tortoise's back are monuments to the decadence of the ancient Sultai. Though it harkens back to the era of the khans, Silumgar allows it to walk his territory as a warning to those who would oppose him.



"Peace? Its sole purpose is fear."
—Saheeli Rai
An elder in one pride, of the Sigiled caste in another.

Inside even the humblest goblin lurks the potential for far greater things—and far worse.
"How can you accuse me of evil? Though these deeds be unsavory, no one will argue: good shall follow from them."


"There is no tactic I enjoy more than ambushing the ambushers."
"The kami grant you this boon, not I."
"We protect our own with our own."
"High on a throne of royal state . . . insatiate to pursue vain war with heav'n."
—John Milton, Paradise Lost
Nothing lives within it, yet there is life.
Elven tap is the official language of three very obnoxious planets.
"Some may question your right to destroy ten billion people. Those who understand know that you have no right to let them live."
—Exterminatus Extremis


You see your next disguise in every stranger's smile.


"You dryfolk must take the air for granted. You constantly insist on wasting it."
—Kenessos, priest of Thassa









"Can they *do* that?"
—Imwita, Zhalfirin artificer, last words
"The people of Akros must learn from our leonin adversaries. If we match their staunch ferocity with our superior faith, we cannot fail."
—Cymede, queen of Akros
"Tawnos's blueprints were critical to the creation of my armor. As he once sealed himself in steel, I sealed myself in a walking crypt."
—Urza
The land drank power from the Mirari as though it had thirsted forever.
A symbol of ferocity in oppressive times.
Better living through metallurgy.
To some, desecration. To Gix, decoration.

Its life force entwined with its tree, a dryad is an elusive and solitary being that wishes only to be left alone.

"What rainbow could possibly come of this rain?"
—Asmira, Holy Avenger
"Barrin always said that reality is relative. 'The world,' he cautioned, 'is but pieces of one's perception.'"
—Ertai, wizard adept




Magnetic devices that keep massive golems and structures standing can also be used for the opposite purpose.
Some patriars pay massive sums for exotic pets that can give their posh, predictable lives an edge of danger.
It harmonizes with the essence of its master.




When it snared a passing cockatrice, its own soul darkly doubled.

"Cyclonic Ri—fplfmplfmlfblthpfmnsnffl!"
"Within blood is life. Within life is fire. Within fire is the path to our masters' glory!"

There's no race like gnome.
"You might want to step back."
—Jaya Ballard, task mage
"Not all paths are found on the forest floor."
"In secrecy is strength. None can oppose one who cannot be found."
—Szadek
All crave the Blessed Sleep. Few receive it.

In Gavony, headstones come only from quarries that have been blessed by chaplains.
"Your spirits can rest in peace, for your debts are paid."

The two looked at each other, and neither fled. "I see," the soldier murmured. "We're both just fighting for survival out here, aren't we?"

The best way to calm a rampaging ceratok is to wait until it dies of natural causes.

"We train for the improbable, like lightning striking the same place twice, or striking everywhere at once."
—Nundari, Sea Gate militia captain
Immolation is the sincerest form of flattery.



"This world was once so much more than the confines of Naktamun."

"The underclass often forget that they are not tenants, or servants, but property."

Lightweight, flexible, and protective.
"But I signed nothing!"
—Taraneh, Suq'Ata mage
Enter and leave the shackles of society behind.
"click . . . click . . . beep . . . whirrrr . . ."
"Our shamans assert their mastery over the land, thwarting the lesser clans' attempts to stand in the way of our dragonlord."
—Allek, Atarka hunter

Lathril, queen of the ancient Eimir, left a powerful legacy for her mortal descendants.
It teaches *you* to play dead.


"Get the sylex to Urza at any cost. Tell him to fill it with memories of the land."
—Ashnod, to Tawnos

A skilled Izzet Chronarch can carry out an epic vendetta between the fall of one hourglass grain and the next.
Linger on death's door and risk being invited in.

"Listen to the roar! Feel the thunder! The Immersturm shouts its approval with every bolt of lightning!"
Not every thought is a good one.
"From a tiny sprout, the greatest trees grow and flourish. May the seeds of your mind be equally fruitful."

"Sometimes it is better to be swift of foot than strong of swordarm."
—Elven proverb
"That does it! I'm going back to hunting chickens!"
—Rhirhok, goblin archer

"Dwelling in icy mountain streams near goblin and orcish foes, the river merfolk were known for their stoicism."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. V*

The more Esper changes, the more he refuses to.

Just as the evil ones approached to slay Justina, she cast a great spell, imbuing her weapons with her own life force. Thus she fulfilled the prophecy: "In the death of your savior will you find salvation."




Nothing evens the odds like a little lightning.
Depart yourself; one mind is too small a vessel.


"I'll fight two at once, and then lick their guts from my blades."

"Would you rather feel the edge of blade or the sharpness of my fangs?"
Stormcallers came to appreciate the novelty of Jund's volcanic updrafts.
When the meek charge into battle, courage becomes infectious.

There is no line Jon Irenicus would not cross to regain his lost immortality.



The metal must be pure. The hand must be steady. The product must be perfect.
To Hazoret, those who fight for her are her beloved children.





The model incorporated the fifth sun effortlessly, as if it had always known.

"What am I looking at? Ashes, dead man."


As far as Lila was concerned, all courtesy should be common.

Like the tide, time both ebbs and flows.
"It's a proven fact that sling-stones from the dawn side of the riverbank sail the farthest and truest."
—Deagan, cenn of Burrenton
They exist to cease.
"Beast. Defiler. The source of all my pain."
—Ihsan's Shade
"You see a bird, an oak, a packbeast. I see the potential for an army."
—Lalia, Selesnya dryad
The streets of Ghirapur have become dangerous. It's good to have a dependable companion.

Gold buys death. Death earns gold.
"Nothing in nature goes to waste, not even the rotting corpse of a good-for-nothing, blood-sucking vampire."
—Halana of Ulvenwald


"The cost of your opposition will be extracted from your wits."
—Nekusar, the Mindrazer
Every soldier returns from battle changed: by hardship, by blood, by a glimpse of glory.
It provides what every discerning mage requires—time to think.
Trapped in safety is still trapped.
After lightning struck the cliffs, the ore became iron, the iron became steel, and the steel became greaves. The lightning never left.


The druids of Mazar treat each seedcone with respect for the warrior it will become.
"So he gots a sword. Big deal."
"Yeah, it's a big deal—it's a big sword!"
—Two goblins outside the gates of Trokin

Nothing escapes its gaze—or its breath.

If there's anything a werewolf hates, it's a collar—especially Avacyn's Collar, the symbol of her church.
"It always amazes me what perfectly good things people throw away."
—Ludevic, necro-alchemist



Oddly, no one questioned the Cabal's wisdom in hiring a zombie to work at the cemetery.
"If a vampire were feeding on you every night, wouldn't you have bite marks? Stop wasting my time."
—Donya, village healer



Ogre shamans must be bright enough to learn their invocations and dim enough to use them.




The flame of a warrior is never extinguished.
"Catch me if you can."

It puts the "vortex" in "flavortext."

"We need to block the exits from the plaza! What's big, heavy, and available?"
—Gideon Jura
The Agents of S.N.E.A.K.—Silent Ninjas Evading Any Kapture.
"There is no tomorrow, so hold nothing back."
"Cranial explosions for everyone. Still planning to outthink my dragons?"
"I was born to glory."




These spirits of the air are winsome and wild and cannot be truly contained. Only marginally intelligent, they often substitute whimsy for strategy, delighting in mischief and mayhem.







"Things are going to change around here."
—Crovax



Ramirez DePietro is a most flamboyant pirate. Be careful not to believe his tall tales, especially when you ask his age.
When the vaults are empty, everyone is rich.

Elegant filigree birds perch along the eleven bridges that cross Canal Dukhara.





Liliana inspires horror in many and fanatical admiration in a few.


"There's more where that came from!"
An arcane device with the power to rouse armies, raze enemies, and reward emperors.
The people of the Sun Empire worship the sun in three aspects. Ixalli is the Verdant Sun, who fosters growth in all things.






"I fear I have run out of worthy opponents."
"Ready . . . aim . . . fire!"
"Ow!"
"You know I accept only one currency here, and yet you have sought me out. Why now do you hesitate?"
—Xathrid demon

It responds with unnatural precision.

Jund is a world as cruel as those who call it home. Their brutal struggles scar the land even as it carves them in its image, a vicious circle spiraling out of control.
"Leviathan, too! Can you catch him with a fish-hook/ or run a line round his tongue?"
—*Job 40:25*
"We draw our power from the infinite ocean of the mind, where all manner of things can be conceived."
—Azure creed
The mysterious purpose of two of the rings had eluded Esper mages—until now.
"A horrible sight, yes, but the sounds . . . Its twanging tendons and grinding gears are almost musical."
—Brudiclad, Telchor engineer


"Test 12: Boots now protect wearer from all hazards except blisters. Need to source better insoles."
—Development log of Willa, Yotian artificer


Fail to respect the forest and you will fertilize it.
Wurm heads appear
Wild wurm near
Wurm tails you see
Wild wurm flee
"I doubt any labyrinth minotaurs still live—but then again, we minotaurs are stubborn beings."
—Onatah, Anaba Shaman



"I've walked a hundred worlds, but you are my universe."

Nature bends to the witches' call.
"The true dishonor for a soldier is surviving the war."
—Telim'Tor
Called "the Dross" by its inhabitants, Mephidross is home to the nim, Mirrodin's mindless, ravenous undead.
What happens when it is the dream that wakes and the sleeper that fades into memory?
An avatar he sculpts of anger and flame.
The clerics known as condemners punish those who do not recognize the righteous authority of the church.









The smallest seed of regret can bloom into redemption.

The vedalken saw the myr as toys, unaware of the intelligence lurking behind their empty eyes.

It vents the chill of the grave.


"Have your dreams of a better society become an obsession?"
—Watnik, master glassblower
"Bitter water, vicious wave;
Shadow-cold shallows, root-made maze.
Home's angry embrace."
—*Rootwater Saga*
"Born and bred of fungus, Thallids were nearly impossible to kill."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. I*
"The Simic come from the cold slow depths. How could they understand the fire in a wild heart?"
—Kroshkar, Gruul shaman
The cyclops had learned to never eat a shepherd. Instead he gently flung the "pit" aside to grow a new flock.

An artificer once dropped one in a vault full of coins. She has yet to find it.


"Give the schematic to the younger brother. Tell him that it will surely keep Argoth's resources out of Urza's hands."
—Gix, Yawgmoth praetor

Masters of dimensional dissonance, singularity manipulation, and countless other technologies, plasmancers are terrifying to behold.

"I believe many worlds will bow to Phyrexia. Mirrodin is merely the first."
—Sheoldred, Whispering One
"Don't laugh. It works."
—Yavimaya ranger
His spark lost, he plots revenge upon the plane whose corrupting mana fractured his soul.
Sometimes you die a glorious death with your sword held high. Sometimes you're just target practice.








This card is named My First Tome.




There's little advantage to surprising the gahr.
Griselbrand's defeat did not mark the end of the Skirsdag cult. They simply turned their worship to the next demon to emerge from the shadows bearing offers of power.



Instinct yields the truest insight.
"As long as each side thinks it can win, the balance holds, and the mage-rings stand."
—Alhammarret
Dawn brings a new day, and a new day brings hope.
If the Whippoorwill remains silent, the soul has not reached its reward.
"I hear there are bears—or spirits—that guard caravans passing through the forest."
—Gulsen, abbey matron

Every new evincar cements their power with a culling as the weak are purged anew from Rath.
"We can't quite determine what they're doing, but they seem to be doing it quite well."
—Vedalken research notes
Ojutai's words must be translated from Draconic before his students can benefit from their wisdom.
"Step carefully, Imperial. Even the earth rises against you."





Purphoros's blessing: sometimes a boon, sometimes a bane. Always ablaze.

While the root remains, the tree yet lives.

"Setessa is not the city of my birth, but it is the place I fight for, and the place I'm willing to die for. Does that not make it my home?"

Los gigantes más iracundos son normalmente los armeros más diestros. Sus agravios avivan interminables sesiones en la fragua, mientras se gruñen ferozmente a sí mismos.
Its wings beat to the howls of war and fan the fires of rage.

"The mind of an Eldrazi is a puzzle that can never be solved. The trick is to make sure a piece goes missing."
—Jace Beleren
From Gaea grew the world, and the world was silent. From Gaea grew the world's elves, and the world was silent no more.
—Elvish teaching
He cares not for the disasters his storm brings as long as his path ahead is clear.
Foolishly, Najib retreated to his castle at El-Abar; the next morning he was dead. In just one night, the dwarven forces had reduced the mighty walls to mere rubble.
It hardly weighs anything, but it takes all day to remove.

"Preachers of freedom forget that conformity can be beautiful."




By studying dragon anatomy, Jeskai monks have learned how to locate clusters of nerves that will incapacitate even the mightiest dragons.
It's pretty cute—from a distance.
"To defeat your enemies, you must remove their ability to make war against you."

The true names of birds are songs woven into their souls.

"'Utterly' is my favorite way to destroy something."
—Chandra Nalaar






"Well, this can't be a good sign."
—Old Rutstein

The air that holds them aloft can just as easily put them down.

"The arrow strikes one bird down, but the flock remains."
—Jeskai teaching
Distant thunder rumbled, a dread forewarning of Keranos's displeasure.

"I do not miss Jukai Forest. It is not my home. My home is Kamigawa, its people my family. Wherever I set my pack and rest my head, I am home."
Like his mother before him, Darigaaz gave his life defending Dominaria from the tyranny of self-styled "gods."


Where the Mephidross leaches into the Quicksilver Sea, the waves writhe with necrogen.


Light's champion in the stronghold of darkness.

Once he'd worked out which end of the thing was sharp, he was promoted to guard duty.

"The vampires knew what was coming. I know it. And they did nothing. They deserve to feel the same agony they've caused all of us."
—Anitan, Ondu cleric

He paints with drop and shimmer a world that exists only in the wistful heart.
Lieutenant Kos has never met a group of recruits he could not inspire or a mob he could not quell.
It hears and answers every orison across Shadowmoor.

"How can I be of assistance?"

"Every patch of land must belong to Kjeldor, no matter what the cost!"
—General Varchild

"I don't rub salt in wounds. I use sulfur."
—Matoc, lavamancer




"If you want to know what's really going on in any building, you don't walk in the front door. You stake out the back."
—Lavinia




The path to action is forged in confidence.

Those who survive the test bear a mark of power anyone can recognize.

"His strengths are pride, devotion, and ambition. His weaknesses are the same."
—Pianna, nomad captain
"I long for peaceful times, when I may tend to my garden instead of our borders."




"Before my eyes was a horrible monster, worthy to figure in the legends of the marvellous. . . . Its eight arms, or rather feet, fixed to its head . . . were twice as long as its body, and were twisted like the furies' hair."
—*Jules Verne, Twenty Thousand Leagues under the Sea*, trans. Lewis


Designed by an ancient artificer, the vials are strong enough to hold the very breath of a dragon—until it's needed.
"Blood is constant. Every drop I drink, someone must bleed."
—Vradeen, vampire nocturnus
"You can have the body, necromancer. I just want the skin."
The red envelopes guarantee safe passage through the Lurenbraum barrier. Olivia left strict instructions: no invitation, no entry, no exceptions.





A single lie unleashes a tide of disbelief.
"I have schemed too long to be supplanted by dead gods. If I cannot have this world, no one can."
"Greet death with sword in hand."
"I've been all over this world. I even remember some of those places."
"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim."
—Sisay





At the end of the show, she stands alone on a stage brilliant with blood.
Raugrin meets the sea with jaws wide, its coast spiked with teeth of crystal and granite.

"The flame paints a bright wheel on the sky, then shifts into a stabbing spark. The enemy falls; the smoke of victory rises."
—"Legends of the Firedancer"

Love is like a rhino, short-sighted and hasty; if it cannot find a way, it will make a way.
—Femeref adage



On Naya, ambition and treachery are scarce, hunted nearly to extinction by the awe owed to terrestrial gods.


You don't so much hire goblins as put ideas in their heads.
Aspiring to earn their place in the afterlife, acolytes train every day against those who fell short of that glory.


"A dash of cool water does wonders to clear a cluttered battlefield."
—Vibekke Ragnild, *Witches and War*

The Mirari pulses in his veins.


Mines became common as cities during the days of the artificers.


"We move because the earth does."
—Bruse Tarl, Goma Fada nomad

The communal mind produces a savage strategy, yet no one could predict that this vicious crossbreed would unravel the secret of steel.
When House Dimir's secrets are in danger of exposure, the guild takes drastic measures to cover its tracks.
"It's them or us."
—General Kudro

There was a farmer, had a hound . . .
While Urza's machines favored defense, Mishra built his to end the war quickly.



Gruul territorial markings need not be legible. The blood, snot, and muck used to smear them are unmistakably Gruul.




"Okay—you take the sixteen ragers and the hulk on the right. I'll take the ten defilers and the plaguelord on the left. Ready?"
—Danitha, to Radha

Occasionally a member of the Institute of Arcane Study acquires a taste for worldly pleasures. Seldom do they have trouble finding employment.






"A company of infantry is trapped behind the lines. We need to strike hard and fast to free them, or the casualties will be horrific. Send the griffins."
—Tajic



With the harvest of Domri's spark, the Elderspell began to fuel Bolas's ascension to godhood.

"Brackish water, dark and blind Heed my will, to you I bind."
—Opening passage of Leshrac's Rite


City officials once sent twenty gleaming automatons to exterminate a nest of gremlins. They soon saw the error of their ways.
"An angel appeared in the smoldering skies above the fray, her clothes as flames, her armor as fire."
—"Hymn of Angelfire"

"As if his chest had been a mortar, he burst his hot heart's shell upon it."
—Herman Melville, *Moby Dick*
Massive, mindless, and imbued with one terrible purpose.

Giants share nothing but their fury.
All around Emrakul, life re-formed in her image.



Evil kami are drawn to mortals who share their grim fascinations.
When dictated by blinkmoth migratory patterns, clouds of tiny lights well up from Mirrodin's core.



Just because a temple has no guards doesn't mean it's undefended.


"I don't need a plan, just a goal. The rest will follow on its own."
—Gerrard
"There's nothing like the high seas to clear your head or escape pursuers."
Duplication is neither thievery nor flattery. It is efficiency.
Called "stonefeathers" by many lowlanders, rukhs are thought to descend from a phoenix that sacrificed its flame for a body of stone.



"In the name of Kyodai, begone!"
Sigarda was the last uncorrupted archangel, but she would not have to fight alone.



One voice is but a pebble to the rest of the world. A thousand voices at once is an avalanche.



"One beginning, many paths."
—Vannifar
A deafening roar arose as the fury of an enormous vertical river supplanted our serenity. Eddies turned into whirling geysers, leveling everything in their path.
These troops are only as strong as the evincar's control.
"The Gruul embrace all things poisonous and living in the cracks of society."
—Teysa Karlov, Grand Envoy of Orzhov






There is no height above Grixis that is free from the stench of death.
The consciousness of Mat'Selesnya does not always spread in peaceful ways.

He has journeyed where none have been before. Now he returns to ensure that none follow.
"I've always said full war chests win wars, but I didn't mean by bashing enemy skulls with them."
—Teysa





"The opponent who blocks the path, becomes the path."
—Shu Yun, the Silent Tempest
"I am the mad one!"





"You serve Phyrexia. Your pieces would better serve Phyrexia elsewhere."
—Azax-Azog, the Demon Thane





She now hears only Emrakul's murmurs.


She hears every voice from the swirling, whispering mist and swears to tell their stories.




Thallids herd saprolings from place to place in search of detritus to feed them.

It entered the temple with all the pomp and decorum of a rock hitting a goblin's skull.
The Street Swarm is the labor class that drives the Golgari's endless cycle of life and death.
Dragons of the Kolaghan brood are always on the move. They are the driving force behind the Mardu's nomadic way of life.
What fire giants lack in arcane prowess, they make up for with reckless, explosive rage.




Cantankerous and territorial, sandwurms claim even the skies above their dunes.
"There will come a time when the voices of soil and seedling will sing only laments."
—Oracle *en*-Vec
Only the coldest hearts and the strongest stomachs can stand against it.


Tycthis's military career was a flop.
Legend has it that Serpents used to be bigger, but how could that be?

Mined from a cave in the Dark Meanders, it shines brightest when no one is looking.




"While, like a ghastly rapid river,
Through the pale door,
A hideous throng rush out forever,
And laugh—but smile no more."
—Edgar Allan Poe, "The Haunted Palace"


"Eyes see only what is possible. A trained mind can explore the impossible."
—Kefnet, god of knowledge
From the remnants of the dead, Geth forged a swarm to safeguard his throne.
"Nature is a dance. Master it, and the world can keep no secrets from you."



"I have seen things that would reduce a weaker person to blubbering and raving. Want to hear about them?"
—Vraska




Lymph, the fluid essence of blinkmoths, is prized by wizards for the rush of intellect it provides.


Like most features of Grixis, the obelisks that remain from the time of Alara now exist only for dark exploitation.
"Many must die for the one who should not have perished."

Centaurs are sent to evangelize in Gruul territories where words of war speak louder than prayers of peace.
His mind, like his body, is made up of the swamp's flotsam.





"I saw the devastation when the juggernauts crashed the walls of An Karras. Then I got to thinking."
—Janji, sylvan druid

For one evening, the dueling bloodlines channeled their feuds into elaborate footwork.
"You'll bend to my will—with or without your precious sanity."


The land drank power from the Mirari as though it had thirsted forever.

"They're still here?! The cockroach may have finally met its match."
—Teferi

No one is as dedicated to perfection as a stitcher working on their latest masterpiece.

On Otaria, peace and harmony are rare. Places that provide both are cherished.



Wordlessly it leads its abhorrent brood.
"Are the gods angry at our discontent with what they give us, or jealous that we made a thing they cannot?"
—Kleon the Iron-Booted

Wolf-riders of Selesnya apprentice from a young age. Each rider raises a wolf pup from birth to serve as a mount, hoping that one day the two will share the honor of guarding the Great Concourse.
There's a chance to win every battle.
"Just wait till I get my Leviathan . . . ."


Drakelings fish with their tails, angling to snare succulent thoughts and memories on their psychic hooks.

Sliver young are sorted into clutches according to their potential and their future role. Human scholars can only guess how those are determined.

The runes glow beneath the snow, bearing memories of a time when the old gods ruled the realms.


He craves only one commodity.
The Ghitu of Shiv are as fierce and uncompromising as their volcanic home.
"The endurance of the ancient turtles in a land so harsh makes a strong case for patience, tranquility, and composure."
—Gavi, nest warden
A picture is worth a thousand swords.
"The most powerful dreams visit those who shelter in a dragon's skull."
—Chianul, Who Whispers Twice
It harmonizes with the essence of its master.
The angel remembers her past lives like dreams. Her song held up meadows. Her blade drove back darkness. Her wings carried her across the ages.
"Here you lie then, Ugin. The corpses of worlds will join you in the tomb."
—Sorin Markov




"How can we wage war against ourselves? What happens when the kami of our very souls rise against us? I answer simply: We cannot. We die. There can be no victory in this war."
—Sensei Hisoka, letter to Lord Konda

Whether it is magical, lucky, or merely old, it is cherished, and that gives it power.
Snaking remnants of nature directed by a body of thought and progress, the oracles embody all that is Simic.

"Why is loud stupidity so infectious?"
—Rana, Suq'Ata market fool

"I like a little entertainment with my dinner."
—Rakdos




"How easily your flames are quenched."
—Baral, Chief of Compliance
Night after night, Rosheen babbled about a bygone sunlit world, her every word dismissed as a madwoman's ravings.

Her roots connect her to the forest's wishes.


When the dead are laid to rest in Ravnica, it's usually just a nap.
"The people wiped the sand from their eyes and cursed—and left the barren land to the hyenas and vipers."
—Afari, *Tales*
Some armor is forged, some is forested.
"If there were such a thing as a soul, I think it would be behind the gallbladder but above the kidneys."
What he lacks in patience, intelligence, empathy, lucidity, hygiene, ability to follow orders, self-regard, and discernible skills, he makes up for in sheer chaotic violence.
Underground civilizations maintain magical barriers around their settlements to deter these monsters.
"Our belief shall be the lance that pierces Volrath's heart."
In fire there is the spark of chaos and destruction, the seed of life. In ice there is perfect tranquility, perfect order, and the silence of death.
The only thing that flies over the Krosan Forest is the wind.

Memories have distinct tastes. Its favorites are the sickly sweetness of lost love and the bitter smokiness of cruel murder.
"Leave no scraps, lest you attract pests."
—Mardu threat

As the shards merged into the Maelstrom, their mana energies fused into new monstrosities.
Some days you stand to greet the horizon. Other days the horizon stands to greet you.
"When one of us prospers, the pride prospers."
—Jazal Goldmane
"Some have said there is no subtlety to destruction. You know what? They're dead."
—Wandering mage
In the treetops, unseen by many, lurks chittering, skittering death.



"Get up, blast you! They're attacking! Why are you all so slow?"
—General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox

Did you go through all the trouble to unscramble this?
"Crovax knows we're coming now," said a grinning Sisay. "I just sent the *Predator* crashing into his stronghold."
"The predator knows the true way of the world. Life is conflict. Only the strong survive."
—Garruk Wildspeaker
"Since the war began, fishermen don't sing to the kaijin to ask for full nets. They guard the shore with thrice-blessed spears, saving the nets for their wives to pack their belongings and leave."
—Hayato, master sailor
Urza protected his body well, but neglected his soul.



"At first, the equations were simply numbers. But in those numbers, I saw a story, and in that story I saw a pattern, and suddenly it all fit together!"

Sudden vengeance, echoing fury.




"Let's begin this conversation again, and this time you will only listen."

Vampires think of themselves as the indisputable nobility of Innistrad, able to do as they please. There are few who can prove them wrong.
"We have confiscated your spells as evidence. Once we conclude our investigation, you may petition to have them returned."
Take everything from them. Lives. Flesh. The very gorund they walk on. Only then will your victory be compleat.
"And darkness shall be cast from me For my soul resides in the Sun."
—Femeref dirge

Dalakos's invention worked . . . until it didn't.
"Now that's the Chandra I've been waiting to see."
—Liliana Vess
"Good ol' rock," muttered Rhirhok as the shaking began. "Nice ol' rock … ."
Even after thousands of years, the wondrous creations of the Thran guarded the lost empire's secrets with single-minded devotion.
"I will trade life for life with the insurgents. Our resources, unlike theirs, are limitless."
—Davvol, Evincar of Rath
The Wall of Bone is said to be an aspect of the Great Wall in Hel, where the bones of all sinners wait for Ragnarok, when Hela will call them forth for the final battle.
Her wits are sharp, but her blades are sharper.


"There is nothing so invigorating and stubbornly belligerent as the pure energy of life."
—Valentin, Witherbloom dean
Devils redecorate every room with fire.




In fire there is the spark of chaos and destruction, the seed of life. In ice there is perfect tranquility, perfect order, and the silence of death.

Opening Orazca unleashed more horrors than just the Immortal Sun.



Though the reaver is horrifyingly effective, its dorsal vents spit a highly corrosive cloud of filth.
"Is it true that the apes wear furs of gold when they marry?"
—Rana, Suq'Ata market fool
Dwarven skalds are the most renowned storytellers in all of Kaldheim. They travel across the realms, seeking out heroic deeds and chronicling them in epic sagas.


Bobbing merrily from opponent to opponent, the scimitar began adding playful little flourishes to its strokes; it even turned a couple of somersaults.



By guild tradition, any puddle of multicolored light on the cobblestones can serve as neutral ground.


The giants believe the fossils they find in Lorwyn's rocky heights are dreams frozen in time, and they treasure them.


Even the Goblins shun this haunted place, where the tree limbs twist in agony and the ground seems to scuttle under your feet.

Playing *Unhinged*, . . .

Initiates need worry only about the trials. Everything else is in the hands of the gods.



"Day 31: I finally succeeded in my time reversal experiment! "Day 30: I might have a problem here."
—Journal of the Prime Izmagnus
Urborg would just as soon steal your memories as your life.
Gerrard hesitated, looking up at the enemy ship. The future hesitated with him, changed forever by the pause.
A thousand phobias sopped from the city and wrung from Rix Maadi as one.
It is everywhere and nowhere, a place unbound by logic, just beyond the real.


"Will! They have a copy of *Tales of the Fae* here! Want me to read you a bedtime story?"
—Rowan Kenrith
In the gardens spread across the Quandrix campus, fern turns to forest before class is even over.
The Mirari's magic transformed the Krosan Forest—and its inhabitants.
"Everyone here is a honed fighter. We'll respond the only way we know how."
When the goblins need more scrap for the Great Furnace, they simply let the ogres loose and follow in their wake.
"Be silent and listen to your inner fire. Only then can you walk the Path of Flame."

"Witchcraft or technology, it is blasphemous, and it must be stopped."
—Inquisitor Greyfax
Simic symbols are among the most intricate and fragile, yet few vandalize them for fear of the strange lifeforms that might be released.
"Planeswalking cannot be taught. Either you see the doors or you do not."
—Nissa Revane
"Beneath serenity may lie a hidden rage."
—Jaeuhl Carthalion, Juniper Order Advocate
Even through the Mirari's voice, the elves still hear the call of their kinship.
Without Garenbrig's strength, the realm would succumb to the wilds.
"One of my greatest teachers."
—Garruk Wildspeaker
He gets paid by the axe.

With an armory of light, even the squire may champion her people.
Silumgar takes pride in the diversity of his sibsig.
"They shall kill those whom once they loved."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer



It may wear your face, but its mind is its own.


On guard for larger dangers, we underestimated the power and speed of the Imp's muck-crusted claws.


The hunt ends. Lunch begins.





Krushoks clear debris from fertile fields, fallow fields, and battlefields.
The highway of fear is the shortest route to defeat.
"Lat-Nam has bequeathed us its secrets. With them we shall attain true enlightenment."
—Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen



The relic had been kept for years in a place of power, of community, and of friendship—distilling magic from the light of love.



"Heroism is more than a single act; it is hundreds of small decisions, made every day, in pursuit of a heroic cause."
There is a sanctuary that reveals itself only to those graced by the *eludha*—the mystical connection between bonder and monster.
"I will ... tell thee more than thou hast wit to ask."
—Christopher Marlowe, *Doctor Faustus*


Some kami attacks during the war were rife with trickery, subterfuge, and subtlety, draining hope and pride from the mortal world. Other attacks were a lot more straightforward.
Such cloaks are in high demand both by assassins and by those who fear them.
"There are only fifty words in the cyclops language, and ten of them mean 'kill.'"
—Ertai
Young Eldrazi crawl forth from the dust, compelled by a greater will.

Knowledge demands sacrifice.
"Stay."
Alara's burning blood cannot be contained by mere earth and stone.
Even the thrums, the lowliest of slivers, become deadly in its presence.

As brilliant as a cut diamond, and with just as cruel an edge.
The executioner's tree in Thraben Cathedral holds the power to absolve more than the souls of the hanged.
Mephidross gives up treasure easily . . . as long as you take its place.

"The protective wards of the church have weakened, and no one can tell us why. It's time to look to our own defenses."
—Gregel, militia leader
"The River Heralds carve spells into jade, hoping to steer us from our course. But what right do they have to keep us from that which once was ours?"
"Hear that thud-clank, thud-clank? We're saved."
—Ani, Urzan soldier
"I'm not picky about what comes up, but the less decay, the better."
—Liliana Vess
Conviction, the third myth of reality: Only those who seek the truth can be deceived.


Llanowar elves conceal their ballistae in the upper canopy of the forest, ready to clear the skies of any intruder.




"Out of my way!"


"There's a smoothness to my magic here that I don't find on any other plane."
"Our duty does not stop at our borders."




"Don't worry. I'm not going to deprive you of all your secrets. Just your most precious one."
—Liliana Vess
"Bant is a world imprisoned by polished stone and tyrannical rule. It yearns to strike back against those who restrain it."

Nothing says trouble like a reedy hiss with a hint of liquid gurgle.
"Our lives, our homes, and all our history are at risk. Do not speak to me of peace."


The mysterious purpose of two of the rings had eluded Esper mages—until now.
There is beauty in the uncertainty of potential.


Cut it down, bury it in snow, put it to the torch. The rose will still bloom again.
Dusk follows the light.

The mushrooms growing in the wolves' fur possess curative properties incredible enough to tempt many alchemists into risking their lives to track one down.
They fought with the desperate courage of those who have nothing left to lose.
"Odd. I didn't see any lightning . . . ."
—Herreth, poacher, last words
"Do not concern yourself with my origin, my race, or my ancestry. Seek my record in the pits, and then make your wager."


"In the wild, white fur like mine is an aberration. We lack natural camouflage, but the inability to hide encourages other strengths."
—Ajani Goldmane

". . . Three kings no more-Chenliu, Guiming, Anle. / The fiefs and posts must now be filled anew. . . ."
Every world is a work in progress, constantly reshaped by time, disasters, and even the powerful magic of Planeswalkers.
Standing knee-deep in unsorted Astrotorium garbage, Gurnt couldn't help but feel his trip was finally starting to turn around.
The cathars arrived at the abandoned lab to find many of the unfinished projects gnawing on one another.
Proximity guarantees injury or death.



"Your companions were lucky to have died first."
The mana that binds the world together can also tear it apart.
"Not all paths are found on the forest floor."


"Their appendages are sharper than our swords and quicker than our bows."
—Hastric, Thunian scout



"So many have died in search of that map. And now it appears in the hands of the arrogant child Chandra Nalaar."

Spy for today. Plan for tomorrow.



It's true that two heads are better than one, but after that you run into diminishing returns.
The wizard exclaimed, "I'm no chicken . . . ."
"Ahh! Opposable digits!"
The imp, unaware of its own odor, paused to catch its breath . . . and promptly died.


"We are kin to the trees, and their strength is our own."


Tovolar's howl of command was too much to resist, even for Arlinn's own loyal pack.

For his crimes, he was made to forget all the trolls' secrets. Now he knows only that he is outcast, but not why.



"The White Shield is not the burnished metal you lash to your forearm but the conviction that burns in your chest."
—Lucilde Fiksdotter, leader of the Order of the White Shield
The Mardu warrior was overjoyed when Tasigur set him free and granted him passage through the jungle. He failed to notice the Sultai leader's cruel smile.
Everyone is manipulated. It's just more obvious with the dead.

"Where will you run when I punish you with the very ground you flee on?"
—Nicol Bolas

"I never thought I'd spend my life fighting. I'm a maker, not a destroyer."
"Many voices are needed to quiet this land."

Conflict breeds opportunity.
The wave of lava seared cloth from skin, skin from flesh, and flesh from bone.
His work determines who is remembered and who feeds the worms.
Immolation is the sincerest form of flattery.

"Once, the C'tan sought to rule us. Now it is they who serve us, their shards powering our great machines."
—Szarekh, the Silent King






The stubborn Meng Huo was captured and released by Kongming seven times before finally surrendering.
When the Planeswalker Angrath called dinosaurs "dragons," the name stuck in certain pirate circles.

There is a stillness that walks with him, the quiet that follows great tragedy, when even the mourners are too exhausted to weep.


"The animal spirits are the Ancestor's grandchildren. Remember them."
—Mystic elder
The Orzhov are not the only religious tradition on Ravnica, nor the oldest.





The best techniques outlive their creators.






The passing years add new rings to the tree's trunk, bolstering the spirits that dwell within.



The Orzhov care not for repentance, only repayment.
The sparkmage shrieked, calling on the rage of the storms of his youth. To his surprise, the sky responded with a fierce energy he'd never thought to see again.



"Those who fling spells too quickly should have reason to regret it."
—Baki, Wizard Attendant



"You lived for Serra's love. Will you not die for it?"
"When the wielder is strong enough, any sword will do."
—Kresh the Bloodbraided
Both forge and pyre.
The unicorns of Sursi are a manifestation of Serra's joy and compassion. They frolic and dance like children, offering blessings to anyone they encounter.
When you've got the temperament of a dragon, every argument is one you'll win.
Young, yes. Inexperienced, yes. Weak? Don't count on it.

Hobs bury their kin far from home. They believe the dry, open ground keeps hags from stealing the bones and gwyllions from stealing the spirits.
"The threads of magic that protect this place were woven by my will."
"Impress me."
The high-pitched whirl of a hook is the only battle cry she needs.
The cycle of life and death is rarely pretty.

Its essence divided into three curses.

It fights with inhuman vigor.
"Her voice is the wilderness, savage and pure."
—Kamahl, druid acolyte
Ertai volunteered to open the portal. He figured he owed it one.

"Rise and serve me once more."
—Trazyn the Infinity


Though she is rightly feared, there are relatively few tales of her deeds in battle, for few survive her raids.

"I'm up here. You're down there. Now who's the lower life form?"
"Show them the same mercy they showed to Kroog."
—Gyvan, thopter pilot
Urza's metathran children were conceived, birthed, and nurtured by an integrated system of machines.


"I wrecked your metal guy, boss. But look! I made you an ashtray."
"Tools and artisans can be destroyed, but the act of creation is inviolate."
—Elspeth Tirel
"Why so slow, why so slow? Hurry up! You never know what you'll find."
"You will be reimbursed for your donation."
"The reimbursement is spiritual."
—Temple signs
Tangling vines, fetid murk, paralyzing poisons, and crawling dead. The swamp is nature's trap waiting to be exploited by unnatural minds.

The Roil redraws the world as it passes, leaving only the hedrons unchanged.

To become king of the Goblins, one must assassinate the previous king. Thus, only the most foolish seek positions of leadership.





The bolt struck with a flash and there was a terrible sound, as of glass shattering, but the creature was unharmed.


"Living side by side with the Elves for so long leaves me with no doubt that we serve the same goddess."
—Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order


Helplessly drawn in, the bard's enemies quickly find there's more than song to be found.


"We do not need beakers and vials to test our predators."
—Vorinclex, Voice of Hunger


"One day we shall walk where once was water."
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
"Courage is the only shield I need."


When it came to following her orders, it was do and die.

Proud Alkmenos, who would not bow to Erebos in death, is now bowed by his own hubris for all eternity.

"You will learn to earn death."
—Volrath
"By thorn and by stone, we will fight to see the day when beauty returns to this world."


"Through me, the Great Teacher's voice will rattle this world."

Kobold tactics rarely account for little things like diplomacy, mercy, or surrender.


"If it bears wings, I will pin it to the skies over Tefemburu."
—Ruya, Zhalfirin archer
There was no reason to pray. This was already an act of the gods.
Being an alpha means proving it every full moon.

"The first time was amusing, but now you're getting tiresome."

The Ogre philosopher Gnerdel believed the purpose of life was to live as high on the food chain as possible. She refused to eat vegetarians, and preferred to live entirely on creatures that preyed on sentient beings.
Young viashino flock to the Riveteers for Ziatora's leadership, eager to unleash their own inner dragons.


The giant Tarvik dreamed that trinkets and machines caused all the world's woe. When he awoke from his troubled sleep, he took the name Tarvik Relicsmasher.
"Let the forest spread! From salt, stone, and fen, let the new trees rise."
—Molimo, maro-sorcerer

The future isn't sacred, but its speaker is.

The purpose of any moat is to impede attack. Some are filled with water, some with thistles. Some are filled with things best left unseen.




"When your cities and trinkets crumble, only nature will remain."
—Garruk Wildspeaker
For his family, Barrin made a funeral pyre of Tolaria.

Tawnos finally cracked the puzzle: the strange structures did not house Mishra's malevolent creations but were themselves among his creations.
"You know what I was,/ You see what I am: change me, change me!"
—Randall Jarrell, *The Woman at the Washington Zoo*
Don't make the mistake of thinking blunt horns can't kill.

"When something dies, all things benefit. Well okay, just our things."
—Ezoc, Golgari rot farmer
"Every sword drawn to defend is an angelic blade, guided to justice by an angelic hand."
—Auriok proverb
If you spot one elf in Llanowar, it's likely there's another with a knife at your back.


Villagers cloaked the town in magical silence, but their ears still bled.
Wreckage from the Phyrexian Invasion provided the rats with a seemingly unlimited number of breeding grounds.
From the highest tiers of Dawn's Light Palace to the deepest shade of Wren's Run, the silver notes of the horn shimmer through the air, and all who hear it feel its pull.

Under the master's eye, skills are honed sharper and spells cut deeper.



As werewolf attacks increased, brutal weapons not seen since the Travails were dusted off and put to work.
Invented in Mishra's earlier days, the Rack was once his most feared creation.
"Your body is a delicate instrument that tells me truths. These devices help me 'tune' that instrument."



"It is only fitting that one such as I should die in pursuit of knowledge." —Vervamon the Elder
It was a family reunion to die for.

Heavy enough to withstand the Roil, leatherback skeletons are havens for travelers in storms and landshifts.

The Second Sun brought nothing but darkness.

Freed from their chains, these dwarves are bound only by honor.




Imps are just intelligent enough to have an understanding of cruelty.

To snare what lies between worlds takes the patient reach of trees.




Mold crept over the walls and into every crevice until the gleaming white stone strained and burst.
Cast out by his village, he now takes grim offense at refugees who seek shelter in his forest.
He fancies himself a master thief, claiming to "steal the ground" from his victims.
It left behind an echoing emptiness more horrible than the grave.

"There are those who do not believe in the existence of the amphin. This seems somehow to be of their own design."
—Gor Muldrak, *Cryptohistories*
"Pyromancers are cowards who look no further than the flickering flame on the surface. I alone have the courage to dig to the true power that roils beneath."

An empty canvas holds infinite possibilities.
An avatar he sculpts of instinct and force.
"This Tovolar is no brainless brute. He sends his howling minions to terrorize a village for months. Sleepless nights and fear take their toll. Only then, when morale is at its worst, does he strike."
—Barnes, village watch
A drop of ink is a nuisance. A torrent of inklings is a menace.
"I will . . . tell thee more than thou hast wit to ask."
—Christopher Marlowe, *Doctor Faustus*

When it passes, rainbows follow.
He grants endless wishes, as long as you always wish for a blade.
"There is only one way of life in Jund: feed on the weak until you are cut down by something stronger."
—Jorshu of Clan Nel Toth
Their thoughtweft carried Darial's last thoughts back to his doun. They sorely wished it had not.

"The Moriok are fools. They try so hard to gain my favor. All I want is for them to die quickly, to join the ranks of the nim."
—Geth, Lord of the Vault


After Efrava was destroyed, the cat warriors scattered across Dominaria. Those who followed Jedit's example were strong enough to survive the ravages of apocalypse.

"The so-called Barbarians will not respect us for our military might—they will respect us for our honor."
—Lucilde Fiksdotter, Leader of the Order of the White Shield
Administrator of the military state of Sheoltun, Tobias Andrion is the military right arm of the empire and the figurehead of its freedom.

"Command is the act of balancing on a vine and convincing others that it is firm ground."
—Sidar Jabari




Many hands for many evils.


"O! it is excellent / To have a giant's strength, but it is tyrannous / To use it like a giant."
—William Shakespeare,
*Measure for Measure*
"You've got how much gold there?"

"Though the letter was many pages long, I could tell all I needed to know from one look at the messenger's face."
—Barrin, master wizard


New Capenna's districts are a series of tiers; wealth and power always rise to the top.


"There are so many of them. It seems they've just been waiting for someone to serve."
"This god held prisoner in human hands has put all humanity in the hands of angry gods."
—Masako the Humorless
"The druids would be better off if they spent more time in the lab and less time watching trees grow."
—Pontifex, elder researcher
An eye for detail, a mind for numbers, a soul of clockwork.

The river split into many channels as it flowed to the Halimar Sea. Few travelers could follow the same one twice.


Expeditionary houses are notorious for their rivalries. But when adventurers meet in the wilderness, the instinct for mutual survival outweighs petty grudges.



"Fuses? We have more than enough! Now . . . which one was it?"
—Flearan One-Eye, goblin engineer

"There is great wisdom in rushing headlong into combat . . . if you're prepared."
—Kenjek, captain of the Thousand Swords

Blessed by a thousand prayers.
Like a sleeping dragon, Shiv stirs and groans at times.
"Your body is a delicate instrument that tells me truths. These devices help me 'tune' that instrument."

"Centaurs will kill our Aesthir if they can; they've always been enemies. Destroy the horse-people on sight."
—Arna Kennerüd, Skyknight

"Grant me loft. Grant me light. Grant me the accuracy I need to kill all who threaten Bladehold."
—Prayer to the Whitesun

"Thrice Xuande's ardent quest led to Nanyang, / Where Sleeping Dragon unveiled Han's partition: . . ."



The nomads' funeral pyres are more practical than ceremonial.
"They actually have venom, not poison. If they were poisonous, a single drop would—IT BURNS! IT BURNS!"
—Riptide researcher, last words

"We're not at odds with the woods. How could we be, when we share so many enemies?"
—Marel, Dawnhart witch

"Ouphes love trinkets and love to take them apart. I only wish they wouldn't do so with the magical ones."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, Elvish Hunter

A precious shell without, a delicious taste within.

Even treefolk witches steer clear of the unpredictable woods near Glen Elendra. Spells refract off the glamer-polished trees and the eyes of lurking pucas.


When no birds are available, Kangee's disciples fill the sky with anything that's willing to fight.
Wolves that feast on zombie flesh and survive carry the foul diseases of the dead wherever they roam.


Bores ruin a party. Boars are party to ruin.
Odric took no joy in violence but neither did he mourn for the twisted things he dispatched. All that mattered were the lives he had saved.
The first wave of slivers perished from the Riptide wizards' magic. The second wave shrugged off their spells like water.

"The living don't ever stay living, and the dead don't always stay dead."
—Jeddeg, philosopher of graves


With one motion, a pest is removed and a scourge inflicted.

In the final days before the disaster, all the crabs on Tolaria migrated from inlets, streams, and ponds back to the sea. No one took note.
The Ogre philosopher Gnerdel believed the purpose of life was to live as high on the food chain as possible. She refused to eat vegetarians, and preferred to live entirely on creatures that preyed on sentient beings.

No matter where you find them, goblins love rocks.
"It's self-indulgent, I admit, but I do like to watch my own symphony play itself out."
—Nicol Bolas
"Is it true that the apes wear furs of gold when they marry?"
—Rana, Suq'Ata market fool






"Better for a doun to lose its cenn than its springjacks."
"What we knew as Emeria, Ula, and Cosi were not divine beings at all, but a cruel trick, and a grave error."
—*The Invokers' Tales*
"Lay sacrifice to the godsire that it may spare us, but save some for his progeny who also will hunger."
—Syeena, elvish godtoucher


One little goblin shook up the ground. When the dust cleared, no one was found.

"From the snowy slopes of Kaelor, To the canyons of Bandu, We drink and fight and feast and die As we were born to do."
—Balduvian tavern song
"If you want to truly test your survival skills, walk the Obelisk Path when the drakes are feeding."
—Etha, initiate of Rhet crop

A step in one direction is two steps away from another.

Now for a squirt of lemon juice.

Travelers in the Somberwald scan the ground for werewolves and other threats, unaware of what lurks above.
Everybody knows that to ward off trouble, you knock on wood. But usually it's better to make a wall out of the wood and let trouble do the knocking.
Editor's note: There were no suitable flavor text submissions for this card.

The Boros built a prison in the sky where Azorius statutes couldn't restrict their sense of justice.




Knowledge brings the sting of disillusionment, but the pain teaches perspective.
Life's circle has become inverted in Grixis. The same energy is endlessly recycled and becomes more stagnant with each pass.
They exist to cease.



"When I asked my commander the reward for killing that prancing nuisance, he told me, 'None! I want to kill him myself!'"
—Phrogas, soldier of Akros
Firemane Nevena led the victorious assault on the Barbu Rooftop rebels. Now the Gateless have marked her for death.
Urza always put Tocasia's lessons on resource-gathering to effective use.
"I was called to this world of steel, and it will be my steel that answers."
—Elspeth Tirel


"Power, gold, crackers—every bird has its price."
—Chainer, dementia master
Jingling coins beckon many an eager hand.
"Life grows everywhere. My kin merely find those places where it grows strongest."
—Nissa Revane
Brokers agents defend their charges by all means available, from intricate logic to blunt force trauma.

"What's the big deal? I've been on fire eighty-one times. Twice just while sleeping."
—Devil K. Nevil, daredevil extraordinaire


A shrine to unchecked desire.
Artifact construction required immense resources.
Creatures of the air wisely avoid the darkest regions of Guul Draz—which is why grappler spiders inhabit the few places touched by the sun's rays.



Taj-Nar, throne of Raksha Golden Cub, destined leader of the leonin prides.
A gleam of refracted light is often the only warning.


He listens to every heartbeat, deciding which one of hundreds he will stop.
The smelting district is home to many who see the guilds as not for them.
Denizens of the wilds don't always seek to harm intruders. Sometimes they simply misplace them.

"Monsters dwell in every heart. We only think civilization tames them." ―Euphemia, Nexus watcher
"I often think on how excited they must feel to be chosen as my prey."
Earth Elementals have the eternal strength of stone and the endurance of mountains. Primordially connected to the land they inhabit, they take a long-term view of things, scorning the impetuous haste of short-lived mortal creatures.
"See that cloud that hangs around it? More than a minute in there and you'll be bleeding out of places you didn't even know you had."
—Captain Ascote
"Fire's out. Should be safe now."
—Gnarltrunk



Cathodions repair the Great Furnace by soldering parts of themselves to the mechanism. Eventually, they become one with the machine.

Suffer the little creatures, for they may yet rise up and beat you senseless.


The priests tried cursing it. The mages tried dispelling it. In the end, they all obeyed it.

Life's circle has become inverted in Grixis. The same energy is endlessly recycled and becomes more stagnant with each pass.






The mind can only expand so far before it flies apart.

"Come, let me free you of the tyranny of thought."
When the twin-spell bonus round begins, the crowd rises to its feet in anticipation of incredible combinations.


Behind his eyes is the pain of every soldier his hands have healed.


To the camp, it was a fierce and loyal protector. To the sentry's youngest daughter, it would always be her "Wuv Muffin."


Oona grants her favored subjects a dream from her own guarded heart.


"I can see which way the wind is blowing."

The power of a waterfall. The fury of an avalanche. The intellect of a gale-force wind.
"The Sultai take our dead, so we shall take their living!"
—Taklai, Mardu ragesinger




Those whose lives were uninspired are doomed to the wretched tedium of Phylias in death.
Темный дар Чейнера еще более темной душе.
"You were once Mardu, so your body and will are strong. Now we must train your mind."
—Houn, Jeskai elder

"Every thought is a string. You just have to find the right ones to pull."

"While most overworlders fortunately don't realize this, Gargoyles can be most delicious, providing you have the appropriate tools to carve them." —The Underworld Cookbook, by Asmoranomardicadaistinaculdacar
When the alarm crystals flash, Drannith's finest answer the call.


The Iroan Games award no medals. Athletes vie for a visit from Iroas, god of victory.


Frost giants study for centuries in isolation, honing their ability to harness elemental mayhem.
"Skill, imagination, smarts: none of it matters unless you have the nerve to use it."


"Many have walked here, but there is only one trail I seek."






A vampire enacts vengeance on the entire world, claiming her debt two tiny pinpricks at a time.
Man's best fungus.


The dwarves believe works of art should be passed down the generations, not buried with the dead.

A symbol of conviction in uncertain times.


"I don't think they'll appreciate my . . . adjustments."
—Karavin, renegade saboteur




Rumors quickly spread among thieves about a labyrinth without walls and a prize beyond all measures of worth.

The hardest of wizards can have the softest of minds.
At the battle of Guandu, Cao Cao defeated Yuan Shao by raiding his grain depot, leaving him with no way to feed his troops.
Deep within the Cabal's vault, the Mirari pulsed like a dead sun—and its darkness radiated across Otaria.
A Vulshok weapon strikes with the fire of the forge that made it.
The Kargan tribes share legends of the victory their ancestors won over the Akoum Skyclave, and its horrendous cost.

Every inch of Ravnica is home to something.
She watches the chaos created by the Roil, seeking strength in the patterns of anarchy.



"Stand your ground, troops! This shall be our finest hour!"
—General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox, last words


"If you would taste the wisdom of the oni, be prepared to salt it with your blood."
—Kiku, Night's Flower
"I do not know which gives me more pride: the legions of soldiers marching in thunderous lockstep, or the cry of the skyknights riding their rocs like jagged lightning overhead."
—Razia


Dependence on luck is anathema to Kefnet's rigorous studies. Those who hope to escape his maze by chance never succeed.
A beacon of hope for a battered army.



"My Abattoir Ghoul deck is unbeatable. Wait, 1996 World Champion?"
—Johnny, to Spike

Ugin's whispered summons led Sarkhan Vol to the moment that would echo down the centuries and seal Tarkir's fate: the primal battle between Ugin and Nicol Bolas.
"Release chaos with me!"
"Sometimes the grave does not wait for death before relishing its feast of flesh and bones."
—Ezrith, druid of the Dark Hours
"Xenagos has fallen, and the world grows dark without him. What can ever fill that darkness but our rage?"
—Guruthes, disciple of Xenagos
"One day we shall walk where once was water."
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
"I've got this under control! Probably!"
"I dedicate my body to my country And my life to my King."
—Alaborn Soldier's Oath

Those who bring nothing to the temple take nothing away.

"Savagery is the birthright of every creature that draws breath—or wishes it could."
—Karador, Ghost Chieftain




"Reynald wished for an army to sweep away his enemies. The fae king smiled."
—*Beyond the Great Henge*
Leonin band together in the Underworld, taking solace in their strength until, at last, both pride and self are forgotten.
"There's no roar so mighty that it can't be silenced."
The makers and menders are the first called to battle and the last to leave.


The righteous light of Selesnya is channeled through the devout, striking out to blind the nonbelievers.

Keep watch only for the giants and you'll be eaten by the ants.
"Opportunity isn't something you wait for. It's something you create."
Some will sacrifice everything for but a taste of power.
"The secret entrance should be near."







One bone broken for every twig snapped underfoot.
—Llanowar penalty for trespassing
"As this conflict grows, it gets harder to prevent the city from breaking down. How much longer can we keep this machinery balanced?"
His mind chose solitude, but his heart disagreed.





Perfect for getting through to the consuls.

"Everyone in this city is choosing sides. I choose inside."


"What root and branch cannot reach, our winged friends will attend to."
—Zunak, Selesnya strategist
Though it was built as an instrument of labor, it wasn't long before it became an instrument of war.


"Ever see a wall drop dead of fright, kid? It ain't pretty."
—Cpl. Dobbs



"Channel your vitality through me."


It's a piece of a world the goblins have never seen but would dearly like to blow up.



"Why, Gideon? Of all people, why save me?"
"My heart and Zendikar's beat as one. Together we will endure."
—Nissa Revane
Spilled blood always begets more of the same.


"The first rule of politics can be learned from a lowly hornbeetle: it is wise to cultivate powerful friends."
—Pythamon, sage of Meletis

The Cabal never expected its creations to create servants of their own.


They knock 'em dead, with or without the punch line.


The essence of wind to lift up the weary.

Elves of the Tajuru Nation spend their lives in the ancient jaddi trees' expansive canopy, some living and dying without ever touching the ground.

"My liege will lead and I will follow—to the battlefield, to the grave, and beyond."
"The secrets of Phyrexia are expensive. You will pay in brass and bone, steel and sinew."
—Kaervek
The unfortunates so transformed hungered not for flesh, but for warmth.
"Big, wicked, and not too smart. Poor thing never stood a chance against us, dear."
—Regna, to Krav
All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.
"You are loved, child."


"There's no sense arguing with insanity."
—Levana, Midnight Duelist
"Such innocent little birds. They sing a sweet song, sitting on their fragile branch."
—Grandmother Sengir
"Nature is a dance. Master it, and the world can keep no secrets from you."
The vast network of predation on Jund has actually caused some strange creatures to adapt to being eaten.

She protects the sacred groves from blight, drought, and the Unbeholden.

Arriving home, he suddenly longed for the bloodsoaked battlefields behind him.
She memorized every arcane text in the Ismeri Library by the time she was sixteen. Now she quizzes sphinxes in her spare time.


Knowledge demands sacrifice.

"Even if I should die in the saddle, she will not let me fall to the ground."
—Hypatia of the Winged Horse

Lorwyn's crust explodes with power when the greater elementals are born. The flamekin use the fallout as cover for forays into enemy territory.

The forlorn cries of the dead combine to make its laugh.

Legend has it that serpents used to be bigger, but how could that be?

"You wish to remember this lesson? I will write it down for you."
—Senifet, vizier of Bontu
The abundance of foes in Orazca means the raptors no longer need any orders.
A blisterpod's corpse is a scion's cradle.
It *is* the thing that goes bump in the night.
"I followed her song only to find it was a dirge."
—Crovax


A good book is a refuge, but a great book is a fortress.

"May the worthy spend an eternity in Blessed Sleep. May the wicked find the peace of oblivion."

Only when two oracles speak in unison is an omen accepted as truth.
The rest of Anhelo's assistant arrived over the following week.

「司令官、ディミーアのスパイを捕らえ、その遺灰を監禁しました。」
――ウォジェクの警備兵、クラム

Through his allies, Meng Huo commanded several hundred thousand troops composed of cavalry, rattan-armored warriors, infantry, naked men with swords, and wild animals.


"Your brother's crimes are your crimes. You stood by and lent support, so you too must face judgment."




Naya's trees grow tall and sturdy. Their foliage intertwines to form dewcups, rainwater pools where the elves gather to celebrate life.


Designed by Markus Persson

He was proud to wear the lizard skin around his waist, just for the fun of annoying the enemy.
"You just need the right incentive to fulfill my dreams."

"Victory in the pits is almost as rewarding as the methods I use to achieve it."

"Have you ever held a Boros signet? There's a weight to it that belies its size—a weight of strength and of pride."
—Agrus Kos

Liliana insisted on coming to Amonkhet to confront one of the two remaining demons to whom she is bound.
It puts the "fur" in "fury."
What is a sliver of one's soul compared to unimaginable wealth?
As it walks across the fallow field, its awkward, loping gait matches the rattling in its head to create a haunting rhythm that chills the bones.
One good mimic deserves another.

"Theirs is the art of blood."
—Jaeuhl Carthalion, Juniper Order Advocate


"All tinkerers have their heads in the clouds. I don't intend to stop there."

A few drops could dissolve the webs of Lolth herself.
Outside the safety of Thraben, there is little distinction between tool and weapon.




Sparks from Purphoros's forge fill the belly of every dragon.



The furnace awaits the next master who would stoke the fires of apocalypse.
From every kill, a gruesome trophy.

There aren't *that* many ways to destroy a solid steel weapon, but somehow the goblins keep finding new ones.

The smallest seed of regret can bloom into redemption.


It was the dragons who first learned to chase their prey into the vapors before igniting them.
"There was a crack of branches, a rustle of leaves, then a tremendous roar. Our party had no chance as death descended from above."
—Taseen, elvish bard
Aspiring wizards must demonstrate basic levels of willpower and mental discipline to even be considered for an apprenticeship.
A mudflow swallowed the lowlands years ago. All that remains are a bottomless mire and an endless rain of ash.


"To survive up here, I've learned when to use my harpoon and when to just enjoy the view."
—Kadhu, skywhaler
"We gather the past from surface dwellers and sell it right back to them."

"The construction of a defense is not accomplished by adding bricks."
—Jace Beleren
"...There was no trace/ Of aught on that illumined face..."
—Samuel Coleridge, "Phantom"
"The cyclops shrugged off savage blows, but casual insults made him weep."
—Azeworai, "The Cyclops who Couldn't"
"Whoever summoned that thing had better confess right this moment, or the whole class will be cleaning the ink receptacles for a month!"
The warlocks never expected their creations to create servants of their own.


May contain soy. May contain a deep void, chillingly hoarse and howling without voice. May contain gluten.
A haunted fog known as the Nebelgast shrouds the cities along Nephalia's coast.

"Catch!"

Mages seek out the ancient beings known as the Archaics for their boundless knowledge of history and magic, dispensed only in cryptic metaphors.



Warm enough to incubate eggs or incinerate those who would eat them.
When the alarm crystals flash, Drannith's finest answer the call.
The oil created the mycosynth. The mycosynth created New Phyrexia.
Although their methods were often brutal, Farrel's followers believed in the preservation of justice and virtue.

Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.
If your flesh can withstand the flame, the spirit of the dragon will burn within your soul.

Healers ultimately acquire the divine gifts of spiritual and physical wholeness. The most devout are also granted the ability to pass physical wholeness on to others.

For the mind-minded mastermind.
Centuries ago, five dragons conquered death to rule the living.
"The forest is my cover and I hold it close. In such a tight embrace, there is no room for wickedness."
"We use only what we need—but in times of strife, our need becomes great."
—Centaur warrior



"Know your foes' strengths as well as their weaknesses."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi machinist

Your path lies across the Spine of the World, where every cave hides some new danger.




The Singing City was silent, the pathway stones were still, and the winds of the Howling Spire ceased.


The nomads' funeral pyres are more practical than ceremonial.

"Oh, it's easy enough to kill, but I'm not going anywhere near it."
—Norin the Wary

Loyal and passionate in battle, the Windseeker tribe roams the Green Lands near the Honeyed Sea.
"You can cower from the crushing shards or embrace the danger of Akoum. I've made my choice."
"We need not fear the forces of the air; I've yet to see a Spider without an appetite."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, Elvish Hunter


Winnowers live to eliminate eyeblights, creatures the elves deem too ugly to exist.
For the first time in many years, Elspeth asked for help.


"For centuries my creation kept this world in balance. Now only her shadow remains."
—Sorin Markov








Nethya stiffened suddenly, head cocked as if straining to hear some distant sound, then fell lifeless to the ground.
Yavimaya's inhabitants are dedicated to protecting its unspoiled jungle from the scourge of artifice.
The standard was a rallying point for the army and a target for the enemy.
"One day the vines of this forest will be as much a part of you as your own fingers."
The heart of Ravnica disappeared before anyone could strike a blow in its defense.

A blazing sun that never sets.
Unlike previous conflicts, the war between Urza and Mishra made Dominia itself a casualty of war.
"They say the ruins of Sedraxis were once a shining capital in Vithia. Now it is a blight, a place to be avoided by the living."
—Olcot, Rider of Joffik


"I will be your most demanding master, Liliana. But I have great things in mind for you."


"Scarcely a mark. A true work of art!"

"We are many, and righteous."
Baral's spies always have the latest technology.


"When the forest wants something, no mortal mind can resist her."
—Maro



"Your eyes aren't playing tricks on you. I am."
Its root system spans the entire floor of the jungle, making eradication impossible.
A living fossil active after eons of dormancy.
Although they had long been concerned about the Order of the Ebon Hand, the Icatians faced an even greater threat from Goblin and Orcish raiders.
The continent of Guul Draz is a geothermal swampland reeking of heat and decay.

"I will preserve human life at all costs. I will stand alone against behemoths before I let them touch my city. I will hold the wall."
—Oath of the Coppercoats


The samurai struck the fragile-looking bubble, and her sword shattered into countless pieces.
"The patterns of crossing ripples reveal the future to those who know how to read them."


Centuries ago, Shizo was a verdant field of wildflowers. After 891 samurai died in a single battle on its grasses, it became a haunted moor.

The folk of Kessig build up their courage by burning effigies of the things they fear.

Empires rise and fall, but evil is eternal.

Few things are truly "lost" at sea.
Steady and silent as the deep current, the reejerey guides the course of the school.


"Your deed cannot be undone. You, however, can be."
—Agosto, Azorius imperator
Eyeballs that portend unpleasant futures become slimy snacks instead.

"Do not let yourselves fall now. Zendikar is depending on us—on you!"



Searching for a vanished caravan that was bound for Silverymoon, you've come to a bank of mysterious fog.

Pray that it doesn't seek the safety of your lungs.
"Smash and grab, loot and burn, then it is the next town's turn!"
The defenses of the Abzan extend well beyond the walls of their fortresses.

Infinite possibilities contained in a finite space.

"The perfect assistant is one that's responsive, dextrous, and capable of reaching all the high shelves."
—Coruk, Esper artificer

The land rises up to defend against those who would spoil its beauty.


"As it moved, the wurm's spines gathered up bits of flowstone, which took the shapes of dead villagers' heads. Each head spoke a single sound, but if taken together, they said, 'Alas for the living.'"
—Dal myth of the wurm
The most terrifying thing about the Craw Wurm is probably the horrible crashing sound it makes as it speeds through the forest. This noise is so loud it echoes through the trees and seems to come from all directions at once.

"Our watchtowers are well positioned. Why don't we arm them?"
—Enforcer-Chief Ranaj
"I give them dreams so wondrous that they hesitate to return to the world of the conscious."
—Garild, merfolk mage

Stensian villagers mourned the loss of human life. Thraben vampire slayers mourned the loss of living wood.

"At last, the infamous Pia Nalaar."
—Tezzeret

"Those without beauty are Lorwyn's greatest tumor. The winnowers have an unpleasant duty, but a necessary one."
—Eidren, perfect of Lys Alana
Boggarts revel in discovering new sensations, from the texture of an otter pellet to the squeak of a dying warren mate.


From Razaketh, Liliana gained sway over the living. Weak mortal souls became her playthings.
Be at peace, and observe its beauty. Be at war, and feel its justice.
Though many think of Wolves as solitary predators, they are actually extremely social animals. During a hunt they often call to each other, which can be quite unsettling for their prey.
The troll had recently crushed a human in much the same way. Sadly, he expired too quickly to appreciate the irony.

She preaches the blessings of the Machine Orthodoxy.



Kithkin weave together their very thoughts, creating a depth of cooperation unknown to other races.
The sunlight falls pristine on the temple at Epityr, softened by the remembered shadows of angelic saviors' wings.
Spring is the most beautiful season in the grove, when the new leaves open from their ember-buds in a race of leaping flames.
"What dies grows the [illegible]"
—Clawed-out statue inscription

In Mercadia City, loyalties extend only as far as your purse can stretch.

Books are like crops—they must be thinned for best yield.

"Each year that passes rings you inwardly with memory and might. Wield your heart, and the world will tremble."

Vedalken eyes don't see the beauty in things. They see only what those things can teach.
"Reel it in. No, wait! Throw it back!"
—Gertrude, deep-sea angler
Yesterday's marvels are today's antiques.

"Shed your thoughts and let my will flow through you."
When tempers run high, it's easy to lose your head.

The carnage of conflicts long past still stains the Otarian soil.
D'Haren stared at the twisted lump of metal that had been a prized artifact. The fight was getting ugly.
"The most elegant solutions are found in nature. You just have to know where to look."



The roar of applause drowned out the melee raging in the lobby.



Karn said nothing—he just grasped the powerstone and squeezed tightly. The wild flashing ceased.

Together the soldiers were like a golden blade, cutting down their enemies and scarring the darkness.
"It's not enough to surprise your opponent. You have to delight the crowd as well."



Sometimes violent earthquakes, hurtling boulders, and unseasonable dust storms are wrongly attributed to the Roil.




"Not again."
—Hans
Its beak rends flesh and bone, exposing the tender marrow of dream.



"Embrace the storm. Its voice shall echo within you, and its fire shall become your touch!"
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain


Dark thoughts hatch and twist within the mind, straining to take wing.

With their factories long destroyed, some of Mishra's creations still toil in remote areas, endlessly performing and reperforming their last orders.
The myr are like the Glimmervoid: blank canvases on which to build grand creations.
"By all means, keep trying."
"Is the maze itself a phantom? Or is one as real as the other? Perhaps I am as mad as the dragon."
—Jace Beleren, journal
The sudden sinkhole was surprising enough, but nothing could have prepared you for the ancient city that was hidden underneath.
The touch of an Eldrazi brings life and death in turn.
"I can't bear to see another plane broken before I make my own home whole. I'm sorry, but my watch is over."
Amidst the darkest ashes grow the strongest seeds.


"When one has witnessed the unspeakable, 'tis sometimes better to forget." —Vervamon the Elder





His sickle was forged in the heat of another cinder's funeral pyre.
"Did you know that wood burns even better than rocks?"
—Toggo, goblin weaponsmith

It requires immense pressure to imbue an item with magic. If the spell is broken . . .



If you want to wreak havoc above, sometimes it's best to look below.


"You don't find many old werewolf hunters."
—Paulin, trapper of Somberwald

"Civilization is the sum of Ephara's gifts."
—Olexa of the Twelve
At first, vedalken observers thought blinkmoths naturally avoided certain places. Then they realized those places were frogmite feeding grounds.


Every Cho-Arrim villager is a potential warrior; when they are called, they abandon their peaceful way of life and take up arms to defend it.


Rain from this storm leaves you pinned to the ground like an insect.

"Whew. For a minute, I thought I'd forgotten the olive forks."
You know that mighty dracoliches will one day rule over this world. For you, that day can't come soon enough.
"I hear the roaring of a wave whose waters are red and whose mists are black."
—Oracle *en*-Vec

"Tricks and treats, souls and sweets! On wooded path, whom shall we meet?"
They watch for a new master, one more sinister than the last.
Used carefully, material has been exposed to the baleful energies of the Warp can be contained to fuel powerful rituals.

The insects keep the wurm's hide free from parasites. In return, the wurm doesn't eat the insects.

Wort had a raiding-bellow that could shatter steel, melt auras, and slice countermagic in half.

Swirling eddies of ash hide crumbling cliffs, treacherous drops, and the slavering maws of unknown evils.


"Flee all you like. The further you run the more firmly I feel your heartbeat."
The only sound was the gentle clicking of the Faeries' wings. Then those intruders who were still standing turned and fled. One thing was certain: they didn't think the Scryb were very funny anymore.
The dreams of giants are as long as time and as deep as the earth. Thus they are prized by the dream-harvesting fae.




The earth cannot hold that which magic commands.



"Do not linger in such places, child. There the gwyllions dance. If they find you, you will join in their revels for eternity."
—Talara, elvish safewright
A ten-minute ride can take you to the luxury of Park Heights, or the grit of the Caldaia.

Imprisonment teaches revenge. Hobbling teaches resignation.
It did not escape the ambassador's notice that the sound of war drums could also marshal the city to attention.


Many have been lost just in staring at its wings. What's seen differs from account to account, but madness is always part of the story.
"Humans are so forgetful. Every page I steal becomes a secret they can't remember."
Farmers typically keep their flocks at thirteen sheep—one to distract the griffins while they take the other twelve to market.

Trust is the only bridle a pegasus will accept.
The Crave made Kneecleaver think she was bigger than the dragon.


On the volcanic continent of Akoum, bizarre vegetation clusters around gas vents, and jagged mountain peaks rise high into the air.

"Their eyes will shrivel and blacken before faith's true light."



"The wind whispers, 'come home,' but I cannot."
—Teferi
Untold riches await those who forsake the bustling world to search the secret, silent places.
There are no small parts, only small performers.

For Sarkhan Vol, the dragon is the purest expression of life's savage splendor.
Every tear shed is a drop of immortality.
Five-toed grave
—Kithkin phrase meaning "a giant's footprint"

"Good ideas don't take time. They take a lot of bad ideas first."
—Ral Zarek

"Your body is a delicate instrument that tells me truths. These devices help me 'tune' that instrument."
Where psycho meets cyclone.

Cho-Manno had never seen Mercadia City's forces fight so well. The magistrate must have hired a new hero.
Once you've seen one, you'll understand why spells won't go near them.
The rhythm isn't a call to arms, but a signal that the goblins have made a new enemy.


These waters remain uncharted, but not for lack of trying.
"She will come back to me."

The elves had devised countless strategies to combat Memnarch's war machines, but they had no idea what to do when one was *thrown* at them.
Any lock can be undone, any secret revealed.
"The blood on my hands is merely proof of my ambition."
—Kaervek

Both forge and pyre.

The infamous Ezuri commands the highest bounty the vedalken have ever placed upon an outlaw.


"Soft dirt makes for light work."
On Naya, ambition and treachery are scarce, hunted nearly to extinction by the awe owed to terrestrial gods.
Artifact construction required immense resources.



"Do not mistake a behemoth's assistance for subservience."
—Mayael the Anima


"Whatever ails you, friends, this will cure it for tonight! And leave you with a little inspiration for tomorrow."

It takes two to craft a mirror: a practiced metalsmith to silver one side and her own hazy reflection to polish the other.



You've always been happiest fighting for a cause you believe in alongside loyal comrades.




Each time the saw blade bit, the tree spat it out.


"My cause is power, and at the altar of power I will gladly forfeit my soul."

Only the hardiest explorers survive to eat the fruit.
"We raised eelhawks to control the squidflies, then waspcrabs to prey on the eelhawks. Now what do we do with all these waspcrabs?"
—Gulistan, Simic biomancer
Everyone knew Walid was a pious man, for he had been blessed with many sons, many jewels, and a great many Camels.


"Elves often tipped their arrows with a drug that caused a deep but harmless sleep."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. III*

Mages of Esper measure their wealth and status by the number of servants in their retinues.

Teyo gifted his shields to as many allies as possible, knowing he could not always be there to protect them himself.
Only the patrol's armor was found, so tainted with the acrid smell of sudden death that it could never be worn again.

When every right is voted away, only rage remains.


"The shadow travels toward the apex. I predict we will soon see the true measure of darkness."
Most myr monitor other species. Some myr monitor other myr.



"All this nonsense made by mages Rusts and crumbles through the ages."
—Aline Corralurn, "Inheritance"


The Kyren goblins created most of the inverted mountain's tunnels simply by driving the beast before them.
Some angels protect the meek and innocent. Others seek out and smite evil wherever it lurks.


"Without Urza's ingenuity, the wings
would never have borne weight. Without
Mishra's courage, we would never have
known the machine's true potential. I hope this persuades them to work together more."
—Tocasia, journal entry
Those who forget the horrors of the past are doomed to re-meet them.
"Urza's machines have a splendid habit of excavating themselves."
—Rona, disciple of Gix


"We have emerged triumphant from the darkness. Let our hard-won wisdom guide us to prosperity."
Storm crow descending, winter unending. Storm crow departing, summer is starting.




"One day every pillar will be a tree and every hall a glade."
—Trostani

"Fate is not as fixed as you might think."


"And through the drifts the snowy cliffs/ Did send a dismal sheen:/ Nor shapes of men nor beasts we ken—/ The ice was all between."/ —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"

When the ruins awakened, so did their defenses.

"Of course you should fight fire with fire. You should fight *everything* with fire."
—Jaya Ballard, task mage
Brashness is close enough to bravery.
Clash of sword and cry of beast fall mute when angels sound the call to prayer.


"The amber of the tree and the blood of my veins are the same."

"My master believes anything is achievable."
"I'd like to introduce you to the new and improved me."

The Izzet learn something from every lesson they teach.

One aurochs may feed a village, but a herd will flatten it.

It is said that the feathers of a crane are clouds, plucked and sewn together by the hands of the kami.
"Time and space are just new battlefields to be mastered."


Everything is flammable in the Burning Isles, even the mana itself.
"The Soul selects her own Society— Then—shuts the Door—"
—Emily Dickinson, "The Soul selects her own Society"
Dweldian magi don't enter the Realm of Thrones when they die. Instead their souls are drawn to great works of magic.
"Whatever volcanoes dream of, it seems like they always wake up grumpy."
—Raff Slugeater, goblin shortcutter
He brews trouble.
Created to destroy Dominiaria, demons can sometimes be bent to a more focused purpose.

A gargoyle's voice reaches pitches that will shatter glass and warp bone.
"Barnacles are the sea's final defense."
—Garild, merfolk mage
"Good morning, children. Please open your aether valves and ignite your gauntlets."
—Rakib, Ghirapur schoolteacher
Aetherborn patrons use any means necessary to secure victory for their protégés.
A hiss before dying.

If you feel a strange chill within the temperate Quartzwood, look up.


Those who bring nothing to the temple take nothing away.
For the Azorius, the opportunity to serve the law is too great an honor for death to interrupt.

Avenant's archers are also trained as poets, so that each arrow is guided by a fragment of verse.


Saltfield nomads call a sudden storm a "whitemane."
"If we fall today, let us fall with honor, defending our realm from the horrors that would defile it. Forward, shieldmates! To Starnheim!"
In Mercadia City, loyalties extend only as far as your purse can stretch.

When killing five just isn't enough.
A blazing sun that never sets.
Seek balance in all things—as long as the scales are weighted in your favor.
—Vodalian saying

"A potion is no substitute for a skilled surgeon, but it will hold your bits in."
—Torricks, battlefield medic

"May the Ancestor strengthen my hand and guide my blade."
—Nomad war prayer





"Wear this, and take your place among the shadows—wise, lethal, and unseen."
—Ivrelya, Dimir spymaster

"Is it not the embodiment of our aspirations?"
—Prokopios, astronomer of Meletis
A ray of hope in the darkest night.

Jund's thallids tried to disguise their deliciousness by covering themselves in spines harvested from the tukatongue tree.
Life is most precious to those who have already lost it.

"I rigged it together from wicker and scrap, yet somehow I find it unalterably perfect."
—Braenna, cobblesmith

"He has learned much in his long years. And unlike selfish humans, he's willing to share."
—Garruk Wildspeaker

"The family is a tree, and in times of need, every branch can be a weapon."
—Daghatar the Adamant



The ogre crashed through the massive door. The winged folios scattered like frightened birds.

"I know these waters better than you know yourselves."
Their fury scatters enemies like a pile of dry leaves.
Dogs beg. Cats lay claim.


Never let the glitter of gold distract you from the gleam of steel in the shadows.



"The jaw bone's connected to the skull bone. The skull bone's connected to the . . . uh . . . hook thingy."
—Garl, sticher's assistant
The realms protected by druids of the Circle of Dreams are gleaming, fruitful places, where dream and reality blur together and the weary can find rest.

"Your friends stayed quiet, and look what happened to them. You feeling a little more talkative yet?"
Held aloft by metabolized magic, trygons are ravenous for sources of mystic fuel.


Scions of the Markov line take particular pleasure in the perversion of humans' holy rituals.
"Look, we both get what we want. I get your Halo. You get to keep your kneecaps."
Through the waves of Eldrazi attacks, the Murasan jungles seemed to regrow as soon as they were destroyed.
"Your mind belongs to the Emperor now."
"A long and difficult incision revealed that all vital organs are housed in the head, save for a long chain of stomachs, forty in all, leading from its throat to the end of the tail."
—Mulak Ffar, *Vastwood Biodiversity*
"Nature's most raw beauty is the circle: perfect in its continuance, with no break between death and life."
"Why listen to the mumblings of wizards when the lash speaks true?"
Jund pulses with raw energy, waiting for shamans to shape it into useful form.
"Take their faces. The lips of these unbelievers may yet honor the Demonlord."


"Dragons seek war. I bring it to them."
"We agree that life should flourish. We disagree on the optimal number of limbs."
"Tawnos's blueprints were critical to the creation of my armor. As he once sealed himself in steel, I sealed myself in a walking crypt."
—Urza

"Let my strength harden your resolve."
"Long after the land has given up the last of its secrets, there will still be mysteries in the depths of the sea."
—Kiora





"No matter how adept our artistic skill, our effigies can never hope to capture the vibrant beauty of a living elf. Perhaps that is truly why we mourn."
"The gods used their feathers to paint all the colors of the world."
—Yare-Tiva, warden of Gramur forest
She is both shepherd and reaper, and her judgment is final.
"The scavengers who first found it called it the 'Bone Crank.' Not a bad name, I'd say."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist



Spawned by mages emulating the insane.

Infinitely powerless.
Land charred black, rivers boiled, Crops and wells alike despoiled, Mountains leveled, forests felled— Footprints of the beasts of Keld.

The sparkmage shrieked, calling on the rage of the storms of his youth. To his surprise, the sky responded with a fierce energy he'd never thought to see again.
"They weren't part of my plan, but Gaea insisted."
—Urza
An enigma as vexing as life itself.
A haunted fog known as the Nebelgast shrouds the cities along Nephalia's coast.
"...There was no trace/ Of aught on that illumined face..."
—Samuel Coleridge, "Phantom"
Its beak rends flesh and bone, exposing the tender marrow of dream.

Stand clear if he gets an itch.
"That one's not mine. Run!"
—Nissa Revane
"Vampires have done nothing but take from us. Tonight, we reclaim what's ours!"


"When you have drunk your fill, pass the cup to others who thirst."






Anarchy comes in many forms: social, individual, Gruul . . .
"I prefer loyalty to be a matter of respect, not of magic. But one does what one must."
—Kaalia of the Vast


To get to Valor's Reach, competitors must first make a name for themselves in the smaller arenas.


Centuries have passed since the plane shattered, yet the obelisks of each shard faithfully serve their long-forgotten purpose.

Her voice was light, her substance music.
It is said that the wind will blow the world past if you wait long enough.




"I can think of worse ways to go. On second thought, maybe not."
—Ludevic, necro-alchemist
"Why build a bridge that needs to be guarded?"
—Elvish champion
Merfolk don't always know what they're looking for, but they're certain once they find it.

"The mountain's fire surges beneath your feet, demanding release. Can you not feel it?"
"The raging gale fans the flames of righteous wrath."

"This is why we don't go out in banewasp weather."
—Rannon, Vithian holdout

The Host sings of Avacyn's return without a single verse about its own suffering.

"Raven's Run has awoken, and ravens will no longer cry in its branches."
—Roon Ghastbark


"It's the must-have gift for everyone on your list. Get one for yourself, too!"
—Chammi, curio vendor

"I'll wring out your tiny mind like a sponge."
—Urborg witch



"The ground polluted floats with human gore,
And human carnage taints the dreadful shore
Fly swift the dangerous coast: let every ear
Be stopp'd against the song! 'tis death to hear!"
—Homer, *The Odyssey*, trans. Pope
"Human enlightenment is a firefly that sparks in the night. Dragon enlightenment is a beacon that disperses all darkness."
Llanowar elves conceal their ballistae in the upper canopy of the forest, ready to clear the skies of any intruder.

To those in tune with the Firemind, there is no difference between knowledge and flame.
"Look! That is why we must never waver. That is what awaits us if we fail."
—Djeru, initiate of Tah crop

The orchard soon reeked of sulfur, smoke, and scorched bugbear, with just a hint of peach.
"Cherish these last moments. Though your miserable life has come to nothing, I have given it a magnificent end."
"Wear the falcon's feathers in your hair— be fast as the falcon, bright as the Sun."
—"Rise on Wings," Zhalfirin song

Gaea forged her soldiers into self-wielding weapons that struck down all impurities.
Castle Vantress has no locks on its doors, but interlopers rarely make it past the foyer.
Those without breath can't complain.



"The Ancients teach us that if we can but last, we shall prevail."
—Kaysa,
elder druid of the Juniper Order


The chaplain would perhaps have found some small comfort had he known that the replacement window would be named in his honor.


The merchant did guarantee the new bait would bring in something big.
"We are the heart of the wild, the fire in its eyes, and the howl in its throat. Come, join the battle to which you were born."
—Kroshkar, Gruul shaman




"The final stage of the illness: delirium, convulsions, and death."
—Phyrexian progress notes

Only the Eldrazi mind thinks in the warped paths required to open the hedrons and tap the power within.



"The essence of a lawful society is swift deterrence."


"All are not equal—neither in life nor after death. Bontu's favorites will stand highest in eternity."
—Senifet, vizier of Bontu
"It's odd to see the apes rip down trees to arm themselves in defense of their forests."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter
With the cycles of day and night unspooled, the twisted sway of the moon only grew. And grew.

Vulshok mana rituals echo the day when the red sun burst through Mirrodin's surface to take its place in the heavens.
"Having conviction is more important than being righteous."
—Aurelia


The loxodons believe punishment comes in two steps: pain and atonement. They carry a weapon for each.
Artifact construction required immense resources.
Structures built from darksteel yield to neither assault nor age.


"Hold your position! Leave doubt for the dying!"
—Tahngarth of the *Weatherlight*

Unpredictable in the extreme, these carnivorous apes will prey even upon their own kind.
Even an enemy is a valuable resource.







"The mortal world is a grove of sweet fruit, and I am ready to harvest it."
—Fallen angel


There are medicines for all afflictions but idleness.
—Suq'Ata saying


Blood is the oldest currency.
"I used to joke that he had been exiled for being too smart. Now I know why he never laughed."
—Glissa Sunseeker
"Rats and jackals feast in his swath, but even they will not walk with him."
@-Mangara
Other Phyrexians have nightmares about the gargantua.
Many have heard the beginning of its low, sustained shriek but few the end.


"Shaping reality is simply a matter of knowing where to apply pressure."
—Ixidor, reality sculptor

"I fight for the suns, the surface, and everything in between."
There are precious few names that echo throughout the Multiverse.





Its host's final curse lies captured within.
"Let's find out what kind of audience you are. Festive? Fearless?"
Fortunately, Hill Giants have large blind spots in which a human can easily hide. Unfortunately, these blind spots are beneath the bottoms of their feet.
Kher Keep is unique among fortresses: impervious to aerial assault but defenseless from the ground.



"We are Mirrodin's children. We will reclaim her—one scrap at a time, if we have to."

"It has been my experience that disasters like to strike in pairs."
When the world is consumed by chaos, the skilled and the foolish are on equal footing.
The fae are so quick and their life spans so short that it's difficult to get retribution for their pranks.
Inspired by industrious silkworms, its maker crafted it to restore the broken pieces of the world.
A lifetime of keeping up appearances is not enough to earn an eternity of rest.
"Size alone does not guarantee survival."
—Vorinclex, Voice of Hunger
It keeps the upper reaches of the forest free of every menace . . . except for the spider itself.
The more metal it digests, the more its jelly will fetch on the alchemists' market.
The Tajuru elves devised ways to let the forest defend itself.
The vizier's wisdom proved invaluable in untangling the Mercadian knot of lies.
Within the rig settlement, those who have mastered the making of weapons earn highest honor.
"If it can scar the sky with fire, do not share its destination."
—Mwani, Mtenda herder




Hunters' methods vary from simple and brutal to elaborate and brutal.









"I don't suppose we could teach them to *throw* the cursed things?"
—Ivra Jursdotter
Fishing boats often follow hunting drakes to find the largest schools of fish.

"We spend our entire existence pursuing the joy of our first night's feast."
—Anje Falkenrath
"Ha, banishment? Be merciful, say 'death,' For exile hath more terror in his look, Much more than death."
—William Shakespeare, *Romeo and Juliet*
"In raiding and plundering, be like fire, in immovability like a mountain."
—Sun Tzu, *Art of War* (trans. Giles)

"Like a thousand candles fighting back the darkness, we are strongest when we stand together."

"Toralf struck the ground with his hammer, and the force of a thousand storms tore through the demonic horde."
—Birgi, god of storytelling

"Remember me not as I am, but as I should have been."




"Nothing like a bit of arson to really get the party started."
—Xenagos, the Reveler
"The embers of our homes still smolder, and already the villages of Kjeldor burn in retaliation. What they have started, we will finish."
—Lovisa Coldeyes

"Why would someone have built ... wait, never mind. Send it to the front lines!"
—Commander Grozdan
Mined from a cave in the Dark Meanders, it shines brightest when no one is looking.
"Just as some fool said it couldn't get worse, the rats began to show up."
—Alaborn soldier


Nomad and Nantuko, eagle and elephant; all the birds and beasts are charmed by his quiet dignity.



It is like life and destiny: we think we know the story, but we have read only half the tale.
"The time to serve is now."


For the patriar class, wealth is in the blood.




Wander too far into the wild and it may take you for its own.



Kidnappers caught in Havengul are given two choices: languish in prison or become rat catchers. The smart ones go to prison.
The legacy of evil lives on.


The bottom of the dark canals is littered with countless corpses and treasures.
"Give me your hand and I will give you victory."

The deep sleep of winter is not always restful.


"Struggle, and you will only fan the flames."
—Talibah, embermage

Enter and become a mastermind of spies, lies, and deception.
"Why do we trade with those despicable elves? You don't live in forests, you burn them!"
—Avram Garrisson, Leader of the Knights of Stromgald
Living metal encasing dying flesh.
Then the maiden bade him cast off his robes and cover his body with fishliver oil, that he might safely follow her into the sea.

"Flog and Squee / Up the tree / See the army / Flee, flee, flee."
—Goblin nursery rhyme/war cry


"Life grows everywhere. My kin merely find those places where it grows strongest."
—Nissa Revane
"In troubled times, we all need someone to watch our back."








"Never underestimate the ability of natural forces to adapt to unnatural influences."
—Molimo, maro-sorcerer
"One arrow keenly fired might prevent more battlefield wounds than I could treat."


For millennia they wandered from plane to plane, devouring all metal. Finally, their wanderings are over.


"The ground polluted floats with human gore,
And human carnage taints the dreadful shore
Fly swift the dangerous coast: let every ear
Be stopp'd against the song! 'tis death to hear!"
—Homer, *The Odyssey*, trans. Pope
"Only wisdom and virtue can truly win men's devotion."
—Liu Bei

"Avacyn has abandoned us! We have nothing left except what we can take!"



Books are like crops—they must be thinned for best yield.

"Those who are different are untrustworthy, unpredictable. Put your safety in the hands of your own kind."
—Bowen, Barrenton guardcaptain

It's so tough it can frighten itself into hiding.
"The soul sheds light, and death is its shadow. When the light dims, life and death embrace."
—Nantuko teaching


"The hypocrisy of these elves is thicker than steel—destroying 'unnatural metal' with their own enchanted swords."
—Kara Vrist, Neurok agent

"I love what they've done with the place."
—Liliana Vess

"Barbarian raids were a concern to those living in the northwest provinces, but the skyknights never dealt with the problem in a systematic way. They thought of the Balduvians as an 'amusing model' of their forebears' culture."
—*Kjeldor: Ice Civilization*

"The giant wept tears of embers for the deaths of his allies."
—Azeworai, "The Lonely Giant"



Goblins' motivational techniques are crude, but effective.

Anyone can destroy a continent. Few have the vision to rebuild one.

Even though Urza tried to apologize, Mishra continued to bear a grudge.
"What fire forged, fire remembers."
"If it returns years hence, our knowledge of how to combat it will be that much greater."
—Andorel, Tolarian sentinel
Crafted with genius, energized with madness.
Until he got singed . . .


Jamuraa's rhystic mages treat magic as their garden, uprooting unwanted spells as bothersome weeds.
No matter how hard they tried, they could never catch that red dot in the sky.
"The Westfolk wept, and their tears wore winding rivers into the cheek of the world."
—Glem the Lonebard, "Origins of Kholon"

Freyalise's tears bring life and renewal, though they also bring trouble.
"Sleep now, brother. That is the one gift I can give you."
—Liliana Vess
The hardest of wizards can have the softest of minds.
Mystics of the Stone Havens call upon the spirits of fallen heroes to defend the refuges.





"Give up these unnatural weapons, these scrolls. Heart and mind and fist are enough."
—Zyd, Kamahlite druid

"The workshops are silent. Our creations have been seized. They have killed what made us alive."
—Pia Nalaar
Bargaining with a goblin is like trading with a child; both believe they already own everything.
There is nothing more repulsive than a cockroach—except a cockroach and all its friends.
Liliana seized the reins of Bolas's vast army, gritting her teeth behind the Chain Veil.








"A few drops of this, and the trickiest problems simply melt away."
—Thamaz, Weldfast inventor

On Innistrad, one person's windfall usually starts with another person lying face down in the mud.



"So many corpses, so little time."

"The bones of allies grant wisdom. The bones of enemies grant strength. The bones of dragons grant life eternal."
"Forget your human ancestors. You're part of my family now."

"This violent wasteland is an indictment of its people. These cowards lack the will to oppose disorder."
A well-made homunculus grooms the mind of its master, pruning the thoughts that lead to madness. Few loredelvers survive the study of the infinite without one.

"Human tenderness is simply weakness in a pretty package."
—Tojira, swamp queen
"Let go your grudges, or risk wandering the bogs forever in a murderous rage."
—Hildin, priest of Avacyn

Those who know the alleys and sewers of the Erdwal can disappear like smoke.
"I wouldn't stand in front of that wurm, son. 'Course, I wouldn't stand behind it neither. In fact, standing anywhere near that wurm's not much of a plan. Running, now *that's* a plan!"
—Wandering mage

Rage-crowned Mogis swiftly rewards the virtue of brutality.


Because the dead have no will to resist.

"Everything comes with a price. Especially revolution."
—Grenzo, dungeon warden
Empires rise and fall, but evil is eternal.


Bears are a delicacy for the Atarka. The few that remain are the toughest of their species.


Every branch a crossroads, every vine a swift steed.

Razia, archangel of war, demands total commitment.

"Is it true that the apes wear furs of gold when they marry?"
—Rana, Suq'Ata market fool
"Beauty to the eye does not always translate to the touch."
—Naimah, Femeref philosopher
As the shards merged into the Maelstrom, their mana energies fused into new monstrosities.
Every movement is a summons —even your screams.

The void is without substance but cuts like steel.


"Each year that passes rings you inwardly with memory and might. Wield your heart, and the world will tremble."
Will gasped as Rowan drew from the raw power of the Strixhaven Snarl. For a moment, she was luminous, transcendent, terrible.
"If it tastes one drop of elvish blood I will cast it from the shroud to see it burn."
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves


"And *I* say north is where I *want* it to be!"
—Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
So great is his wisdom and spirit that many who have met him say that they stood before a giant of a man and talked to the wisest of the four winds.

They exist to cease.
"Monsters dwell in every heart. We only think civilization tames them." ―Euphemia, Nexus watcher

Many peasants secretly admire vampires' glamour and elegance—until they witness a moment of pure bloodlust.
Up and down,
over and through,
back around—
the joke's on you.
Not all victories require defeat.
—Onean idiom
"The educated mind is heavy with lore and knowledge. It's also the most likely to collapse under its own weight."
—Ambassador Laquatus

"He hasn't returned to the Cloud Forest. But I can still sense his calming presence."
—Zaliki of Naya

After a hundred failed experiments, Urza was stunned to find that common silver passed through the portal undamaged. He immediately designed a golem made of the metal.
Its ferocity cannot be contained in one lifetime.
"I am the unraveler, the loosened thread that will not hold."
—Seal inscription


Spring is the most beautiful season in the grove, when the new leaves open from their ember-buds in a race of leaping flames.

Fortunately, Hill Giants have large blind spots in which a human can easily hide. Unfortunately, these blind spots are beneath the bottoms of their feet.




The spear thrown by Kytheon's own hand was the weapon that felled his friends.
There is no boat big enough.


Life is ephemeral. Phyrexia is eternal.






The sea is in their blood. Literally.
"Evil will soon be vanquished. What Innistrad most needs now is healing."

"I know to whom I owe the most loyalty, and I see him in the mirror every day."
—Starke

To B, or not to B.
Some say magic was first practiced by women, who have always felt strong ties to the land.

"Forgive me, Master Kami, but in the interest of my people I must halt your advance."
"The Golgari expand, yes, but I refuse to call their tainted creations 'growth.'"
—Veszka, Selesnya evangel
It is a grim duty to save the world from those created to protect it.

Although the Anima herself remains at the Sacellum, her druids roam Naya, collecting mana bonds with every location in the world.

"I serve only justice. But through that duty, I serve all of Ravnica."
There was a dull thunder at the vanguard, then shocked cries in the midst of the column. Moments later, Takada, last of the rearguard, faced the kami alone.
His blade was forged over coals of moaning treefolk, curved at the optimum angle for severing heads, and heated to volcanic temperatures by his touch.

Under his rule, there is but one creed: Chaos shall reign.
People fight hardest on their own soil.
Jolrael's choice of homes was far better than her choice of allies.




Tenacity prevails when hopes die.
"Life grows everywhere. My kin merely find those places where it grows strongest."
—Nissa Revane



He rides in agitated circles, snapping orders at servants who've long since found their peace.

"I confer with Death itself. What could you possibly do to injure me?"

"These eyes have shown me the flaws of flesh."


"In all my years in Llanowar I never understood where trees fit in. They are revered by elves and watered on by dogs."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight*

"Remember the moral of the fireslinger fable: with power comes isolation."
—Karn, silver golem


Odric resisted the vampire's curse with all his strength. But after a lifetime of fighting monsters, he was doomed to become one himself.


Chaos does not choose its enemies.
"I want every last one of these tree-hugging, earth-loving, pointy-eared weaklings out of here. Now!"


Do not fear the lightning. Fear the one it obeys.


She paints pictures with words, though not all pictures show the truth.
The Eternals had long since mastered every technique taught during the trials.
"After the people flee, but before the enemy arrives—that's grabbin' time."

"Within each of you is the strength of a landslide."
—Kumano, to his pupils
The delight of discovery drives the pursuit of knowledge.
"Behold astronomy's contribution to war."
—Fennor Rhyl, starcaller

"You're not the first to underestimate me."





"You are unworthy of life, but take heart. You have earned a clean death."

"You've not seen a storm until you've seen the kind that roars between worlds."
—Lyna, soltari emissary


Stripped of their divinity, the elves of Skemfar channeled their rage and sorrow into bloody brutality.


Among the Vulshok, the most prized blades are those that killed their original owners.

She chooses her riders carefully and bears them to glory in battle after battle.

"Can't see this airship crashing in the near future. Sturdy as a rock."
"We gave the gods the power to war against us. It is time we took that power back."
"Urza says he's sane. Perhaps, but measures of sanity among planeswalkers are hard to come by."
—Barrin
Its tines cannot be rung by mere physical force. Only magic of great power can start its eldritch resonance.
She preaches the blessings of the Machine Orthodoxy.



Shed harpy feathers leave painful wounds—which explains the harpies' mood.


Lotus fields are too valuable to leave undefended.
With the Hekma destroyed, the wandering dead that sought entrance to Naktamun had free rein to lay waste to the city.


Mines became common as cities during the days of the artificers.
If only every message were as perfect as its bearer.

"Odum and Broadbark were the only beings mighty enough to challenge the giant Moran the Destroyer. Their battle lasted a hundred dawns, until Moran became so exhausted that he fell into namesleep. He awoke as Moran the Gardener."
—*The Tale of Odum and Broadbark*

"Rarely be the prey so haughty as to hunt the hunter."
—Baron Sengir

Tidal forces of the blood moon wrench and buckle the land, drawing monoliths of stone and soil toward the flaming orb.
"The sword is just a tool. It is the samurai's hand that brings it to life."

Those who seek to disturb the harmony of life will see their instruments taken from them.



Why did the chicken cross the park? To get to the other ride.




"I shall make walls of their flesh, and their blood will be my mortar."
—Kaervek

". . . Zhong Hui and Deng Ai next led armies west: / And to the Cao, Han's hills and streams now passed. . . ."

They say the Zombie Master controlled these foul creatures even before his own death, but now that he is one of them, nothing can make them betray him.
Fortunately, Hill Giants have large blind spots in which a human can easily hide. Unfortunately, these blind spots are beneath the bottoms of their feet.

"They're still here?! The cockroach may have finally met its match."
—Teferi

When the gorilla playfully grabbed the wurm's tail, the wurm doubled back and playfully ate the gorilla's head.



Her faith in Serra reached new heights.



On the continent of Tazeem, rushing waters plunge through narrow canyons into mist-cloaked lakes.



"Tell your old master I said hello."
Karn said nothing—he just grasped the powerstone and squeezed tightly. The wild flashing ceased.



Stand clear if he gets an itch.

The oni leapt easily from peak to peak, toying with its victims, its voice a purr from the rumbling depths of nightmare.
"The key to unlocking this puzzle is within you."
—Doriel, mentor of Mistral Isle






"The bonds of bushido will draw the dishonored back someday, and I will be there waiting."
In war, dragons don't see sides, just side dishes.






"The world is already run by all manner of machines. One day, they'll remind us of that fact."
—Sargis Haz, artificer

"This is why we don't go out in banewasp weather."
—Rannon, Vithian holdout
RSVP at your own risk.



The giant was felt a few seconds before he was seen.
The defenders watched in terror as the flying V split apart into a bristling battle formation.
"It is sacrilege to confine a gargantuan to the grinding of straight lines. I will pray that it remembers who is the master of this land."
—Syeena, elvish godtoucher


"You want to know what we are fighting for? Look at the wonder in that child's eyes."
—Pia Nalaar
A golden helix streaked skyward from the Helvault. A thunderous explosion shattered the silver monolith and Avacyn emerged, free from her prison at last.


"I can see why this appeals to Thassa."
—Kiora
You may break her shield, but you'll never break her spirit.
"If people are always on the edge of their seats, we can save money on chair backs."
—Myra the Magnificent

Prayers for rain are answered with the thunder of hooves.
In the first moments, the gate to the afterlife opened, and the people were prostrate in the light of the God-Pharaoh.

The sigil holds different meanings depending on its form and presentation. While some wear it as a sign of status, others wear it as a sign of debt.





"At least I won't become one of . . . those things."
The drums of war stir the hearts of all who fight for righteousness.
Phyrexian smog clouds choked the skies, threatening creatures who couldn't comprehend the menace below.
Last to charge, last to fall.




Even through the Mirari's voice, the elves still hear the call of their kinship.
Where an enemy once rode, not even a whisper remains.

All the money in the world won't buy back a pulse.



"Beauty to the eye does not always translate to the touch."
—Naimah, Femeref philosopher


"Each day there are new reports of homes along Getander Pass and Hofsaddel falling to vampires of a more savage nature. I've even heard tell that Anje Falkenrath has returned. Please send whatever help you can."
—Sterin Gorn, letter to Thalia


The old hermit would never say what he fed his mushrooms, and people learned not to ask.

"Artifice sundered the world. It shall not again wreak such sorrow."
"May you wake to find you were only ever a dream."
—Mephidross curse


"Where will you run when I punish you with the very ground you flee on?"
@-Nicol Bolas

Where Razia was aloof and untouchable, Aurelia is on the frontlines, calling for war.

As she took the wheel of the *Weatherlight* for the first time in a millennium, Jhoira knew she'd been right to restore the ship. Anything was possible now.
"Truth be told, my team had hoped never to see the day it was deployed."
—Consulate engineer's log
At Sorin's appeal, Olivia Voldaren summoned the full might of her bloodline to gather at Lurenbraum Fortress.




"It's not the darkness I fear but dull and numbing shades of gray."
—Sydri, galvanic genius

"You can build a perfect machine out of imperfect parts."
—Urza









"Our time grows short. If we wish to vanquish the Eldrazi, we must unlock the hedrons' secrets."
—Jace Beleren

"They may show up with the wrong thigh bone or mandible, but they always show up."
—Zul Ashur, lich lord
"Ludevic saw it in a dream and set to work immediately, every detail already known. Can such genius be taught?"
—Stitcher Geralf


"The more our numbers grow, the more I gain hope that Volrath and his cursed stronghold will one day fall."
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves

"Destruction is the work of an afternoon. Creation is the work of a lifetime."

The Aurora had lessened the kithkins' kindness, deepened their paranoia, and dulled their sense of pain.


"You think no one is watching, you think you're smart enough to escape, and most foolish of all, you think no one cares."
—Arrester Lavinia, Tenth Precinct

"Need a medic! And some stonemasons!"
—Wyllon, Drannith merchant

A wolf pup is always dangerous, because a wolf pup is never alone.



Death is only the beginning of the end.
Kaito knew every rooftop in the city, and closed in quickly on his quarry—but he knew nothing of the Planar Bridge until it was already too late.
"We give the audience what they want."
—Juri, proprietor of the Juri Revue
The bombardment of sand disorients, chokes, and ultimately tenderizes its prey.

As the Adversary's influence grew, the conflicts between families escalated.
Devouring books is only the beginning. The librarian's next.












It provides what every discerning mage requires—time to think.


"Inner peace is wonderful, and worth striving for. Outer peace is much less important."
—Taelya, Lavabrink pyromage






"I alone determine my destiny."





"Our unity unmasks your deceit."
"Hesitation breeds dissension. To be worthy of the next life, you must never look back."
—Anep, vizier of Hazoret



"Even in the hands of amateurs, Nahiri's hedrons can harm the Eldrazi."
—Ugin

"In all my years of research, I have yet to accurately quantify that baffling mental process known as 'inspiration.'"
—Elmora, mage-analyst

Structures built from darksteel yield to neither assault nor age.
"Danger" was supposed to be babysitting, so "Little Angel" became the newest member of the team.
"One for you, one for me. What could be more fair?"
—Kethis, the Hidden Hand
"I'd stand back if I were you."
A shoreless sea extends to every horizon, sharing its beauty only with those who can fly high enough to see it.
"The vizier of poisons teaches an unconventional kind of strength."
"All we could lose, we did. All we could keep, we do. And both are shrouded by mists."
—Barrin, master wizard


The Tabernacle's disciples channel the emanations from Pendrell Vale, spreading its paradoxical demand to be both worshipped and left alone.

"Such innocent little birds. They sing a sweet song, sitting on their fragile branch."
—Grandmother Sengir




Tazeem's embrace is harsh, but for those that call it home, nothing else will do.

One auroch may feed a village, but a herd will flatten it.



"I'm not indecisive. I just don't like to limit my options."
—Maxti, pyromancer


"He's a lot like me, that masterless little kami . . . unimpressed by grandeur and never at a loss for a trick."
—Toshiro Umezawa
"From a tiny sprout, the greatest trees grow and flourish. May the seeds of your mind be equally fruitful."




"I have seen and heard much here. There are secrets within secrets. Let me show you."
—Takara, to Eladamri




In Meletis, certain oracles are trained to be divine lightning rods, receiving countless visions in an instant.
The wounded see the glow of its vials long before they see its wings diving out of the clouds.
She endures without Avacyn but secretly asks each soul she guides if they have seen her.


A master of tactics, the Lord of Atlantis makes his people bold in battle merely by arriving to lead them.
"The blood ritual is complete. The end approaches."


"Bow before the power of *science*!"

It provides what every discerning mage requires—time to think.


"Fill the sky with stuff!"

"Strike me once, shame on you. Strike me twice . . . Well, let's just see if you can."
—Kara Vrist, Neurok agent
Don't drink and thrive.





Nireya reached through the Gate, sensing the energies trapped beyond.
Walls collapse and kill people all the time. Some are just more aggressive about it.


Have you ever noticed how some flavor text has no relevance whatsoever to the card it's on?
"Too much work—it takes a long time to break them in, and more than a few recruits."
—Grebog, goblin swine-rider





Thunder doesn't always mean rain. Sometimes it means ruin.



Some think that dryads are the dreams of trees.
"Even in single combat, I am never alone."
—Rafiq of the Many

"Just think how strong I'll be if my arms don't tear off!"


"No sign of movement. Looks like we've got the element of sur@-"
@-Gaiza, Mardu raider



Those who expect betrayal at every turn are seldom disappointed.




"High in the Karplusans, death is swift and razor-clawed."
—Arna Kennerüd, Skycaptain
"...It was Pang Ton's boat-connecting scheme That let Zhou Yu accomplish his great deed."


The thunder of its hooves beats dreams into despair.

Its wings shimmer with dreams absorbed from its enemies.
"The altar does nothing; the device is crushed under the weight of its own impurity."
—Ushanti, leonin seer


To grow is to triumph.
"A richer people could give more but they could never give as much."

Its wings disturb more than air.
"The first stage of the illness: rash and nausea."
—Phyrexian progress notes
Without Vantress's knowledge, the realm would lose itself in darkness.

When the winds blow out of the abyss, death is the only harvest.


The ogre appealed the match loss and got it downgraded to a warning.



"Mold could catch you."
—Suq'Ata insult





Discontent is a powerful weapon in the hands of a mob.


Though he eventually came to despise Tocasia, Mishra listened well to her lessons on clarity of purpose. Unlike his brother, he focused his mind on a single goal.
His verdict is always guilty. His sentence is always death.


"Fire, aim, ready!"
On the fourth day they passed through a forest of immense stacked stones. Althemone, youngest of the companions, called these pillars the work of a god, but the Champion knew better. She quickened her pace.
—*The Theriad*


"How can we wage war against ourselves? What happens when the kami of our very souls rise against us? I answer simply: We cannot. We die. There can be no victory in this war."
—Sensei Hisoka, letter to Lord Konda

Vowing to free the souls of her children, Kastinne followed the tormentors into the ghastly network of caves below Stensia.
A bramblesnap is formed by grafting together thirteen different plants that already hunger for meat.
The list of things a krotiq eats is as long as the krotiq itself.


We had taken refuge in a small cave, thinking the entrance was too narrow for it to follow. To our horror, its gigantic head smashed into the mountainside, ripping itself a new entrance.

"Freyalise has cleansed our bodies and minds of the plagues of Kjeldor; all she asks in return is that we keep pure our newly given home in Fyndhorn."
—Kolbjörn, elder druid of the Juniper Order
"Death is no excuse for disobedience."
—Liliana Vess
One never knows when inspiration will bubble up.

An avatar he sculpts of instinct and force.
"Rally to my light, and together we will drive out this darkness!"



Some say the valley of Glen Elendra is mythical, and that rumors of its existence are nothing but a faerie prank. Others say it is the fae's most fiercely guarded secret.
"Keep your flammables out of reach."
—Kerin, watch sergeant

Teferi's body couldn't travel through time far enough, but with Kaya's help, his spirit could.


Many a besieged city has surrendered upon hearing the distinctive rumble of the juggernaut.


The only sound was the gentle clicking of the Faeries' wings. Then those intruders who were still standing turned and fled. One thing was certain: they didn't think the Scryb were very funny anymore.




They'll attack whatever's in front of them—as long as you tell them where that is.
The rain is driven like nails.


The spell fell upon the crowd like a dragon, ancient and full of death.




"I bring a dawn that no night can follow."
A howl on the wind hides many dangers.
The barrier between existence and oblivion is thinner than you know.


Since the majority of the park's business model is based around aimless wandering, this is not where Myra stations her best people.
Tribal rivalries and petty disputes were laid aside at Eladamri's summons.

To the Golgari, anything buried is treasure.
"Nobody asked you to butt in, Jace. But thanks."
—Chandra Nalaar





"I have all the weapons my enemies have—and far deeper rage."
—Tojira, swamp queen


In dark times, Truth bears a blade.


"If it bears wings, I will pin it to the skies over Tefemburu."
—Roya, Zhalfirin archer

If you want to wreak havoc above, sometimes it's best to look below.
"What we begin, the End-Raze will finish. Then we will dance in Ravnica's rubble."
—Nikya of the Old Ways
"Just think of me as the storm before the calm."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*
Their bodies rotted, their bones splintered, and their souls frayed to tatters. Only then were they granted the mercy of death.
"Don't look at it! Maybe it'll go away!"
—Ib Halfheart, Goblin Tactician
"I will build no sanctuaries. The safety you seek can be won only by the sword."
—Yannash, outpost builder
"Realms emerge and wither like autumn leaves, but the World Tree endures eternally."
@-Esika, god of the Tree



"They groaned, they stirred, they all uprose,/ Nor spake, nor moved their eyes;/ It had been strange, even in a dream,/ To have seen those dead men rise."/ —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
"Rise, knight of New Benalia."
"No one ever created great art by playing it safe!"
To study the predators of the Tangle, two people are required: one to watch from above, and one to run like hell.
Your parents taught you that strength can be nurtured and honed, no matter one's size.
Slow and heavy swings the club.
Space can be a lawless place—far from the prying eyes of electrical inspectors.
It falls to the gods to help all become worthy of the afterlife.



"About the sphinx, I have mixed feelings. Their wisdom I crave, but their secrecy I can't tolerate."
—Szadek
"As I desire, so it shall be."
—Nicol Bolas

Fallaji soldiers hated seeing loved ones' faces among the transmogrants. Ashnod devised a solution.


Great generals inspire by example. Goblin chieftains inspire by electrifying the barracks.

"I've seen death before. My mother succumbing to illness, my comrades bleeding on the battlefield . . . But I'd never seen anything as dreadful as that."
—Taani, berserker of Etlan

Memnarch shared a touch of his power with the vedalken in return for their service. It is a debt he intends to collect.
"Glok loved bets! He'd sit in the bar all night an' laugh an' laugh. Hey—he still owes me."
—Squee, goblin casino hand
Its victims feel only an itchy, wriggling feeling just under their skin. By then, it's far too late.


A new dawn, a new adventure.
"Hello, beautiful."
"Life as we know it dangles on the brink of extinction. We must show the strength they would steal from us."
—*The Invokers' Tales*

"I do."

"Fight? I cannot. I do not care if I live or die, so long as I can rest."
—Urza, to Serra




"Do not react to force in kind. Turn it aside. Direct it to where it can do no harm."
—Meloku the Clouded Mirror








The best techniques outlive their creators.


To be king, Numsgil did in Blog, who did in Unkful, who did in Viddle, who did in Loll, who did in Alrok . . . .
The ingredients for panic include equal parts danger, uncertainty, and helplessness.
It remembered all the shadows lantern-cast upon its paper wings, and sometimes those silhouettes played across its shape again, acting out silent tragedies.

"Wave-borne, he watches over secrets of the shore."
—Psemilla, Meletian poet
Geist-powered devices have no shortage of fuel.

"Fire is too imprecise for my tastes. I'd rather rely on a single, well-placed bolt of lightning."
—Lyrus, Sea Gate wizard

"I have seen and heard much here. There are secrets within secrets. Let me show you."
—Takara, to Eladamri








"My sword is pledged to the defense of this city, not to the throne or this usurper."




Stitchers delegate the most important tasks to assistants with a good eye for detail.
"Oh, don't be so dramatic. When your eyes bleed, and your brain leaks out your ears, then we'll talk about lost sanity."
—Braids, dementia summoner

"Never get too attached to a weapon. You must allow a better one to find its way to you."
"There's no contract to sign, no oath to swear. The enlistment procedure is to unsheathe your sword and point it at the enemy."
For the Azorius, the law can be a physical shield against chaos and anarchy.



It's hard to be humble when the whole world is bite size.



Bant's hearts are as pure as its air and as bright as its skies.
Hunger makes a leucrocota dangerous. A full belly makes it angry and dangerous.
Their arrows are tipped with basilisk eyes and fletched with cockatrice feathers.
Occasionally a member of the Institute of Arcane Study acquires a taste for worldly pleasures. Seldom do they have trouble finding employment.

He wanders the Moorlands hoping to one day chop off a head worthy of replacing his own.
There was a farmer, had a hound . . .
"Don't get any ideas."
"Even from miles away, I could see our eagles circling. That's when I gave the command to pick up the pace. I knew we were needed at home."
—Kanlos, Akroan captain

"We've tracked Ludevic's monster across four provinces. When it lands, make sure it stays put."
—Alena, trapper of Kessig, to Halana of Ulvenwald


"What do you have that I cannot obtain?" —Mairsil, called the Pretender

The horrors of Sorin's Haunted Mansion scared Hurrk half to life.

"It's not the darkness I fear but dull and numbing shades of gray."
—Sydri, galvanic genius
"I feel the presence of the God-Pharaoh in the Second Sun, and I rise upon its rays."




"Nature is not always gentle or kind, but all life begets life."
—Marwyn of Llanowar


Kitesailing is a way of life—and without practice, the end of it.

She wished for nobility, but not for a nation to honor it.




"Quiet the waves? Why would I want to do that?"

Once a simple tool, it—like everything else on Zendikar—has been turned into a weapon against the Eldrazi.
"Aw, what's that? No comeback?"
Some priests speak in whispers of the Helvault, a silver prison of unpurged evils.

She's always willing to lend a hand. It just won't be her own.

Ojutai sought to rewrite history. Those who disagreed sought the truth elsewhere.
"If we do our duty and uphold our honor, Kjeldor shall stand for a thousand years."
—Arna Kennerüd, skyknight

The giant was felt a few seconds before he was seen.




The form of the sigil is just as important as the sigil itself. If it's carried on a medallion, its bearer is a master. If it's tattooed on the body, its bearer is a slave.
As Phage drank their energy, a vague memory of Jeska stirred. Then she lost herself again in the joy of her victims' suffering.
It gnashed its teeth, and the battlefield filled with the screech of blade striking blade.
When Belzenlok's lieutenant Yar-Kul grew too ambitious, the Demonlord transformed him into a maggot. The frog that ate the maggot grew and grew, until a ravenous spirit burst from its body.
"Seeing a pack of these monsters hunt together, I'm at a loss to imagine the size of their prey."
—Adrian Adanto of Lujio


"The healers of Bant are second to none. I owe then a great deal for their tutelage."
—Ajani Goldmane

"Dragons seek war. I bring it to them."

"And topples round the dreary west
A looming bastion fringed with fire."
—Alfred, Lord Tennyson, "In Memoriam"

When no falcons fly, beware the sky.
—Femeref aphorism
Mimics don't need perfect disguises. They need only the perfect victims: the naive, the young, or the poor of sight.

For the Phyrexians, death is not an end, nor a one-time occurrence.


"Monsters dwell in every heart. We only think civilization tames them." ―Euphemia, Nexus watcher

"Blood is constant. Every drop I drink, someone must bleed."
—Vradeen, vampire nocturnus
The Blacklances travel deep into the wilds, sometimes for years at a time, in search of the lost Cauldron of Eternity.


Created to destroy Dominia, Demons can sometimes be bent to a more focused purpose.

Dragon birth lairs are littered with treasure to entice the young from their eggs.
The arcane academies along the coast were powerless to protect themselves from the brazen raiders of the Kapsho Seas.





Anyone can get around a cyclops, but few can stand in its way.
To Jin-Gitaxias, perfection is not a goal, but a process.

"My family was saved thanks to a single Boros soldier. It's why I joined the Legion. I will be the protector now."

"So much for that bright idea!"
They seek out living trees to glean age-old secrets from sap and wood.


For Sarkhan Vol, the dragon is the purest expression of life's savage splendor.
"Kyoki, Eater of Minds, Corrupter of Thoughts, Bringer of Madness, Lord of Fear. Return, by our blood, and walk again."
—Ogre chant


Follow the light at your own risk.

"In these, our final days, I offer this. Though we could not save Icatia, we gave our children time to grow, and love, before it fell."
—Ailis Connaut, diary






An inspiring and glorious ascent.
"Too wary to charge, too prudent to serve. Not anymore."
—Sedris, the Traitor King
"The dead ones joined Tocatztli, the seven-legged, each bloom becoming a star in the night sky."
—*The Song of Origins*

Most books simply deliver knowledge. This one expects some in return.


The hex swept through the village, its citizens falling one by one.


"I will not live as a slave. If you would be free, then fight alongside me."
"Don't waste time aiming, you lazy gob-slug! Fire!"
—Krenko, mob boss




Although officials said it was a sewer failure, the people whispered that it was a warning of night's reach.




The path to glory is forged in ambition.

"Listen to the roar! Feel the thunder! The Immersturm shouts its approval with every bolt of lightning!"




"I'm bored with now."
Some spies seek clarity. Others seek transparency.


The helix was the finest example of Mishra's campaign strategy: if he couldn't have Argoth, no one could.
Structures built from darksteel yield to neither assault nor age.


"They groaned, they stirred, they all uprose, Nor spake, nor moved their eyes; It had been strange, even in a dream, To have seen those dead men rise."
—Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
The best swords are forged with dragonfire.

The Abzan avoid extended supply lines by incorporating weapons stores into their battle formations.

She breathes fair winds to tired griffins and lifts songbirds beyond the reach of stalking cats.
"Let my strength harden your resolve."


"Come, my wild children. Let's give the interlopers a woodland welcome."

"This abomination never belonged in our world. I'm merely setting it free."
—Dierk, geistmage

"I'll get you to safety—or whatever passes for safety these days."
—Urborg ferry pilot
Stand your post for duty. Stand your ground for honor.






Three sharp barks announce an attempt to escape the Underworld. Three sharp bites end it.
"Cut the beasts out from under them and their strength is nothing."
—Vona of Iedo, Butcher of Magan
When the smell of passing thoughts piques its hunger, its maw becomes primed with acid and a taste for brains.
Mist is the geists' sorrow. Wind is their pain. Fire is their vengeance.
"For its time as a mortal, Anger chose a shell of boiling rock."
—*Scroll of Beginnings*


It's not any fun until someone loses an eye.
The dead know lessons the living haven't learned.

"We can go into the dark hand-in-hand or alone. I know which I prefer."

"And topples round the dreary west
A looming bastion fringed with fire."
—Alfred, Lord Tennyson, "In Memoriam"
The weary travelers mistook the flickering lights for a candleguilde pointing the way to Harvesttide. Their relief turned to terror as lightning lit the sky.
"Living side by side with the Elves for so long leaves me with no doubt that we serve the same goddess."
—Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order

"The world, I've come to realize, is a blank canvas on which to paint."
—Ixidor, reality sculptor






Feed on food, you eventually rot. Feed on rot, you live forever.
—Kraul saying
Some druids nurture gardens. Others nurture continents.

"We are born soldiers. The call to battle is a homecoming."
"When you find yourself teetering on the edge of oblivion, mine will be the hands taking pleasure in giving you the final push."
—Liliana Vess


"Track the source of those thopters," Saheeli told her creation. "And feel free to snack on as many as you want."
Rules and rails are made to be broken.

"No fair! Since when does a bug get ta munch on *me*?"
—Squee, goblin cabin hand
"Skyknight gear? Well, I have drake-skin gauntlets, supple and fireproof. Or a ceratok chestplate that'll stop a crossbow bolt."

"I have seen the horrors Kaervek has freed. My betrayal is certain—but of Kaervek or of Jamuraa, I cannot say."
—Jolrael
"I have become a gourmet of sorts. Each soul has its own distinctive flavor. The art is in inviting the right company to the feast."
In matters of life and death, he trusts his gut.
First, whispers of ancient days. Then, visions of things to come.

Even the brave are scared by a lion three times: first by its tracks, again by its roar, and one last time face to face.
—Somali proverb


"Don't worry. I know the drill."

"My sword is at your service, as are my scissors, corkscrew, and bottle opener."
"The dead gain new purpose here. What is strange in the eyes of other guilds is harmonious in ours."
—Devesh, Golgari shaman

His blessing is a curse.





The jhovalls are depleting its food sources, the Mercadians are eroding its home, and you're wondering why it's angry?


"The Great River will not be tamed."
"I think not."
—Flekon the Mindcensor
Rakshasa waste no opportunity to display their wealth and power, even in the midst of a sorcerous duel.





"How far are you willing to go for your family, cleanblade?"
—Lord Xander
"There is great wisdom in rushing headlong into combat . . . if you're prepared."
—Kenjek, captain of the Thousand Swords

If you hear it, it's too late.
"I've come to save the world!"

Wrenched from the ground like a dirt-caked rock, the ancient Skyclave wriggled with life.


Greed and gluttony led him to death. Now they are his greatest assets.
"Even the threat of power has power."
—Jeska, warrior adept
"The bigger they are, the faster they rot."




The undead of Grixis are fueled by their hatred of the living.

When Kozilek destroyed Sea Gate, distant Valakut could not contain its grief.




Dromoka dragons foster trust among their subjects, while the other clans must spend their time quelling rebellion.

"Step lightly and we might be able to use it as a bridge."
—Ib Halfheart, goblin tactician
Serra's living warriors looked on in horror. "Where is our Lady now?" they cried.

"RARGLEARGLEARGLE!"

"I can think of worse ways to go. On second thought, maybe not."
—Ludevic, necro-alchemist

The Akroans fashion their helms to honor the dragons, not to protect against them, as that would be of little help.


Shopping List
Lamp-hand attachment
X-ray contact lenses
Discount death ray
Two-headed hammer
Kitten-fish
"I do not remember what he said to her. I remember her fiery eyes, fixed upon him for an instant. I remember a flash, and the hot breath of sudden flames made me turn away. When I looked again, Angus was gone."
—A Wayfarer, on meeting Lady Orca


Some blades seek their own wielders.
In that instant, Toralf felt only the power of the storm and the need to destroy.
Imprisonment teaches revenge. Hobbling teaches resignation.


"Peace must prevail, even if the wicked must die."
Hunger growls, never purrs.
Click your heels and become the wind.



"If that is what you seek, try looking in craters."
—Fodrus, mastersmith



Dark thoughts hatch and twist within the mind, straining to take wing.


"Verdant bloom does exist. It merely hides for its own safety."


Save a kill spell to deal with this guy.



"Scouting is the art of balancing the need to go undiscovered with the need to get all the information you can. It's only by Leitbur's good grace that I'm still alive today."
—Ailis Connaut, *Diary*

The fastest way across the dunes is above.

"Your deed cannot be undone. You, however, can be."
—Agosto, Azorius imperator

Cute as a mutton.
Many a besieged city has surrendered upon hearing the distinctive rumble of the juggernaut.


Battle doesn't need a purpose; the battle is its own purpose. You don't ask why a plague spreads or a field burns. Don't ask why I fight.
"That phantom prow split the storm as lightning cast its long shadow on the battlefield below." —Mireille Gaetane, *The Valeriad*
Sathros turned his restraints to revenge.
The first mistake the Grimnant knights made was bullying the owner of an Urborg corpse shop. Their second mistake was dying.
Unlike previous conflicts, the war between Urza and Mishra made Dominia itself a casualty of war.
"I have been brought to this place and I cannot leave. I may be free of the amber, but I am still in prison."
It's hard to be humble when the whole world is bite size.
"Have you ever killed insects nibbling at your crops? I think that's what the Eldrazi believe they're doing to us."
—Sheyda, Ondu gamekeeper
All creatures have an inner fire. Releasing it can be dangerous.


"The things I once imagined would be my greatest achievements were only the first steps toward a future I can only begin to fathom."
—Jace Beleren


"Killing is easy. Just wrap your hand around the haft, and wrap your enemy around the blade."
"Good, we're all here. Let's get started!"
Once they swam alone among the clouds, but now the people of Kamigawa have built high enough to reach them.
A beacon of prosperity to some, a shadow of oppression to others.
The continent of Murasa lies beneath a blanket of dense vegetation, its enormous branches tangled so thickly that some inhabitants never see the ground.
"Give us breath. Give us life. Prepare us for the day we make."
—The Alaborn "Rite of Battle"


The charge was heralded not by horns, but by the dragon's echoing roar.


"I do as I choose with what is mine. And it is all mine."
—Nicol Bolas


Everything seems a little less ferocious when it's running from a house cat.




"I was not convinced you had a soul until I saw it for myself."
—Liliana Vess
The pup looked over the treetops, eyeing the man who just yesterday had kicked her. Suddenly, her hunger was infused with pure delight.
"I have become a gourmet of sorts. Each soul has its own distinctive flavor. The art is in inviting the right company to the feast."

"Surely we could tame something besides hurdas and pillarfield oxen!"
—Sheyda, Ondu gamekeeper
The lives of elves are long, but their memories are longer. Even after death, they do not desert their homes.
"So even the heart of our world has succumbed."
—Koth of the Hammer
"I am greater than rain and nourishment. I am glistening oil and perfection."
—Yawgmoth
"Life has no mistakes, only experiments."
—Yolov, Simic bioengineer
"Like a riddle, it unwinds. Like a green wind, it reaches out. Like a sudden guilt, it seizes."
—Snow Fur, kitsune poet
"Up you go, you soggy rat."
Members of the Simic Combine adapt themselves to suit whatever role they feel drawn to.
Many scholars believe that these creatures were the result of Urza's first attempt at mechanical life, perhaps created in his early days as an apprentice to Tocasia.
"From dust and light She coaxed forth an uncorrupted world. By Her grace we dwell here, free from suffering."
@-Song of All, canto 11

Labyrinths of tunnels beneath the streets of the Caldaia offer an ample array of discreet routes for enterprising smugglers.

"Anybody want some . . . *toast*?"
—Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
"Naga shed their scales. We wear ours with pride."
—Golran, dragonscale captain

Riders chase the fading light recklessly through the mountains, desperate for one last glimpse of day.

"Whatever faith you have in Serra, she has more in you."
—Lyra Dawnbringer

Each winter, squirrel elders tell tales of the fabled Nut Hoard of the Fallen Oaks. Each spring, young squirrels leave home in hopes of finding it.
After years of world-bending machinations, Bolas's triumph is at hand.
"I am the very soul of battle, but even I would never advise open war with the Conclave."
—Aurelia
"Throw that one back. I don't like how it's looking at me."
—Netos, Meletian fisherman
The least popular goblins get the outer caves.

Burning slowly into annihilation, the elder evil Hadar grants fearsome powers to warlocks willing to help satiate its dark hunger.




Inside even the humblest goblin lurks the potential for far greater things—and far worse.



"A skilled decoy can throw your enemies off your trail. A master decoy can survive to do it again."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*


Most spiders of Llanowar disdain elvish alliances. No elf has as many beautiful eyes or as many strong arms.

"Gilded with gold from a dragon's trove, it is! And etched with the image of the dragon I slew to take it."





Avacyn lives on in the hearts and minds of Innistrad's people.
"Violence is the food it craves. Feed it if you dare."
—Doriel, mentor of Mistral Isle
"Take up the quill, and feel your future flow into the runes."
The Nightmare arises from its lair in the swamps. As the poisoned land spreads, so does the Nightmare's rage and terrifying strength.
"Nature is the ultimate mindless destroyer, capable of power and ferocity no army can match, and the Gruul follow its example."
—Trigori, Azorius senator
"Into the smothering dark, Serra spoke a single word: 'Hope.'"
—*Song of All*, canto 2
The Vintara Forest welcomes its enemies with a crushing embrace.

"True strength comes from within. The false promise of unnatural power only incurs Krosa's wrath."
—Seton, centaur druid
"You have always been a promising student, but your arrogance far outstrips your prowess."




Priests of the Sigardian Sect travel to the farthest reaches to spread hope and healing, even in the darkest times.

"Change your mind, or I'll change it for you."


"Gaea's memory is eternal, and she exists in all things."
—Molimo, maro-sorcerer
"Zendikar will triumph this day, and our armies will fly with angels."
"I used to hurl rocks and eat scraps of meat burned over a fire. Look at what I've become and tell me Simic does not hold infinite possibility."
"A few drops of this, and the trickiest problems simply melt away."
—Thamaz, Weldfast inventor
The Izzet mage knew she would neither get her thermoinverter back nor have the satisfaction of exploding it herself.
"A basilisk's gaze is effective, but disposing of physical remains is a tiresome task. It's far more discreet to dissolve one's victim entirely."
—Szadek

"The giants follow the flow of aether, and twice a year it leads them through here. Lesson learned. More clearance is needed."
—Sram, senior edificer


The Legion looks after its own.

"He has learned much in his long years. And unlike selfish humans, he's willing to share."
—Garruk Wildspeaker
He has the weapons, he has the connections, and he knows the hangar's dark secret.






"We trust in the scalelords, bringers of justice that none can escape."
—Urdnan, Dromoka warrior

Some druids nurture gardens. Others nurture continents.
"When the time comes, let go. Nothing lasts forever."

"Hunters feed on the fear of their prey."
—Garruk Wildspeaker




"One raven is a bad omen. Two are a curse. I don't know what this is, but it can't be good."
—Verna, priest of Sigarda

"I love lightning! It's my best invention since the rock."
—Toggo, goblin weaponsmith



"Arise, great one, and cleanse the world of our enemies!"
Gaea battles rampant death with abundant life.
"May the memory of our fallen heroes ensnare the violent hearts of lesser men."
—Great Threshold of Monserkat inscription
"Life's balance is as a star: on one point is Law, and Law must be upheld. If the knots of order are loosened, chaos will spill through."
—*Song of All*, canto 167

The sea gives, and the sea takes. Some just help with the taking.

One offering to appease her on her arrival. Another to celebrate her departure.


It's not always clear who's the master and who's the servant.


"Kaervek believes the drakes' cries herald his victory; in truth, they mourn aloud for his impending demise."
—Teferi
Most spirits are chained to this world by their despair, but he remains tethered by his hope for better days.

She wields a blade as bloodthirsty and elegant as herself.
Darigaaz decided his foe would be more useful as a weapon.
"Step right up! Try your hand! It'll thrill the senses and boggle the mind!"
Unpredictable as the sea itself, Water Elementals shift without warning from tranquility to tempest. Capricious and fickle, they flow restlessly from one shape to another, expressing their moods with their physical forms.


"We send our best to battle, but every man, woman, and child will stand against Varchild's butchers."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain







"Shiv is a restless land. It heaves ash, bleeds lava, and scabs over in black obsidian."
—*The First Eruption*


"In my moment of death, I had a vision of the world, dark and unwelcoming. I wanted to hide in the deepest meander, but the light pulled me back."
Safety twelfth.


"It was probably a lousy spell in the first place."
—Ertai, wizard adept



In her dream, Lola gazed into a mirror. Her familiar features warped, her jaw stretching wider and wider until it cracked and her reflection pulled her into its gaping maw.
The ruins of the town were a notable upgrade from the wolves' forest den.

"You may enter, but leave those lifeless things of your world behind."
—Modruni, maro-sorcerer



"Your waters sustain the living and carry the dead. Mighty Luxa, let your power flow through me!"



"Meat *and* eggs. We eat!"
—Borborygmos



"Who says lightning never strikes twice?"
—Storm shaman
The symbol of the Conclave is one of unity, with tree supporting sun and sun feeding tree.




A stone hurled at an enemy is deadlier in liquid form.
As the bough stretches, so shall you grow. As the roots spread, so shall you thrive.
She arrived like a meteorite, and the enemy fell in a shock wave of holy vengeance.



"Esper, like any work of art, can be truly appreciated only from a distance."
—Tezzeret
Those with knowledge are wise to listen to those with imagination.





"If you wish to produce the finest work, you must start with the finest tools."

A hiss before dying.

"There are many reasons we invent, of which survival is not the least."

"When the air burns, only death breathes deep."
—Bogardan mage
They fight beyond thought, beyond fear, and beyond mercy.

"I bring a wilderness no law can tame."

Unicorns don't care if you believe in them any more than you care if they believe in you.

"While, like a ghastly rapid river, Through the pale door, A hideous throng rush out forever, And laugh—but smile no more."
—Edgar Allan Poe, "The Haunted Palace"
A Bloodwort's blade is salted with blood and peppered with rust, seasoning and slaughtering in a single swipe.
The maze-like design embodies the core of Azorius law—strict structure designed to test wills and stall change.
Things buried on Innistrad rarely seem to stay that way.

In the arena, vampires set aside all pretense of honor or civilization and fight like the predators they know themselves to be.
Deep-space ports provide temporary shelter for Imperial cruisers on long voyages.

"No matter how strong, an unarmed fighter is no more than a fool."
It spilled the blood of one elder dragon. In Gideon's hands, it may yet taste another's.

Wolves that feast on zombie flesh and survive carry the foul diseases of the dead wherever they roam.

To the elves, her spear is a compass; to the boggarts, a harbinger of doom.
Jevna Nor lugged it around, bragging of his triumph over the wurm. Luckily, the tavern regulars didn't notice it was only a baby tooth.
The kavu might be above you
—Llanowar expression meaning "keep an open mind"

"Eri phar phesta … um, phistor … er, phistara …"
For those who need to make a quick departure without attracting undue attention.

"Did clouds dance in his eyes, did thorns play at his fingertips?"
—Shesul Fass, faerie bard

The first law of Yavimaya is that guests may kill only to survive. As fires aren't needed in the warm weather, cutting trees for wood means death.
With a commando around, somebody's gonna get hurt.

"This Dovin Baan came from nowhere. Watch him. Read his letters. He is more than he appears."
—Lazav



"Survival rule 781: There are always more scute bugs."
—Zurdi, goblin shortcutter
In a rare display of ingenuity, the Orcs invented an incredibly destructive weapon. Most Orcish artillerists are those who dared criticize its effectiveness.

It just obeys you. It doesn't *like* you.
And at the dawn, when dreams slip away, they return to the well to await their next dreamer.
"Remember by whose gift you ascend."
—Milana, Orzhov prelate
The correct answer to a barbarian's riddle is to choke on your cleverness and die.

Sometimes the wise ones wove their magic into living plants; as the plant grew, so grew the magic.


"Let nothing take away from the purity of swords clashing or of arrows taking flight toward the breast of evil."

Its scales contain the essence of thousands of lotus blooms.

"I've seen death before. My mother succumbing to illness, my comrades bleeding on the battlefield . . . But I'd never seen anything as dreadful as that."
—Taani, berserker of Etlan
A skilled decoy can throw your enemies off your trail. A master decoy can survive to do it again.
Every branch a crossroads, every vine a swift steed.



"Here's a nice place we haven't hit yet."
—Captain Rex Nebula
"As long as eyeblights exist, the hunt will never end."
—Miara, Thorn of the Glade

"The knights charged forward on wings of wind, and the necromancer's horde roared in helpless rage."
—Krinnea, *Siege of the Bone Spire*

"The secrets of Phyrexia are expensive. You will pay in brass and bone, steel and sinew."
—Kaervek
Thanks to one champion archer, the true borders of Kinsbaile extend an arrow's flight beyond the buildings.
"I will find the king if I have to ride from summer to winter and back again."
Torching Krosa would be pointless. It grows faster than it burns.



The most terrifying thing about the craw wurm is probably the horrible crashing sound it makes as it speeds through the forest. This noise is so loud it echoes through the trees and seems to come from all directions at once.

Each new generation of slivers evolves to assimilate the strengths of the prey upon which their progenitors fed.
Mines became common as cities during the days of the artificers.
The kor send their thopter kites to see if the land is in a welcoming mood.



History has buried its treasures deep.

It wears the souls of its victims like jewels on a chain.
Its scales contain the essence of thousands of lotus blooms.
"Our ancestors brought down a Phyrexian portal ship, then built our town on its hull. We're pretty proud of that."
—Alene of Riverspan


"To visit the sky requires bravery, and thought, and little else. To master the sky requires the binding of its masters, and little else."
—Arnjlot Olasson, sky mage







A full coffin is like a full coffer—both are attractive to thieves.
The light of hope blinded Pantor to the ills of the world.
"This 'standing windstorm' can hold us off indefinitely? Ridiculous!" Saying nothing, she put a pinch of salt on the table. With a bang she clapped her hands, and the salt disappeared, blown away.

"I see it taunting me whenever I close my eyes."
—Nayrex Slipfinger, master thief
It took three years for it to occur to him to use the chain as a weapon, but once it did, he made up for lost time.




"I order you to volunteer."
Captive dwarves always regain their freedom, either through escape or through a desperate, fiery death.
"The time for subtlety is over, darling."

"It is not just our people I try to rescue. It is our culture, and our hope that we can return to greatness."



In the memories of those they lost lies the strength needed to defend their city.




On expeditions, minotaurs are worth their weight in gold. Fortunately for their paymasters, most minotaurs don't know how much they weigh.
Each spell has its own song, and the enchantress knows the dance for each.

Some say magic was first practiced by women, who have always felt strong ties to the land.
The behemoth roared, and the world was blasted free of empires and tyrants.
Cast the weight as though it were a die, to see a rival's fate.
"My colleagues revile the barbarity of the Blood Age, but I believe we have much to learn from the magics of endless war."
—Embrose, Silverquill dean
"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim."
—Sisay, captain of the *Weatherlight*

"How do I know where aid is needed? Look around you."

An explorer's reward is a view of tomorrow's possibilities.

The angels appreciated the offer but politely declined to eat any birdseed.
"Sheathe your sword, warrior, lest ye fall on it when stricken."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"As the sky opened up, we ran for shelter. Halfway there I came to the sudden realization that, already soaked, there might be more to gain from experiencing the rain than running from it."
"A riddle is nothing more than a trap for small minds, baited with the promise of understanding."

His verdict is always guilty. His sentence is always death.

"You've got how much gold there?"
Scions of the Markov line take particular pleasure in the perversion of humans' holy rituals.



The people of Amrou were scattered by war and driven into hiding. Scouts maintain the beacon fires that signal "return" and "home."

"The more our numbers grow, the more I gain hope that Volrath and his cursed stronghold will one day fall."
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
"Stand back. I know just what to do."
—Kiki-Jiki, Mirror Breaker
After encountering them, Squee finally lost his appetite for bugs.


'Twas in the bogs of Cannelbrae My mate did meet an early grave 'Twas nothing left for us to save In the peat-filled bogs of Cannelbrae.
His true majesty is not in his silver, but in his size.
He represents what little pride the Order has left.

Fire Elementals are ruthless infernos, annihilating and consuming their foes in a frenzied holocaust. Crackling and blazing, they sear swift, terrible paths, leaving the land charred and scorched in their wake.




"Those who do evil and those who do nothing are equally worthy of contempt."
"For a fortnight, our warband lay still beneath the icy waters, breathing through reeds as we waited for the great bear to appear."
—Iskene, Kannah storyteller






Shepherds in Kalonia know it's better to let sheep roam than have them be trapped when the wurms are feeding.



"I will match Thassa drop for drop and show a god what true power is."
—Kiora

Feeling abandoned by Avacyn, some Kessigers turned to the pagan rituals of their ancestors.



There's always room for one more.

"Everyone has a price."

Every storm has an eye.
His enemies wondered if the lich king's brutal death and unnatural rebirth had been his plan all along.
If you can take something from a nomad, it's probably bait.

"Let the points of our lances lead the way."

"When I trained under Multani, he bade me sit for hours watching Yavimaya's spiders. From them I learned stealth, patience, and the best way to snare a wind drake."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight*
For all its traps and defenses, Yavimaya has its havens, too.
"Fools dig for water, corpses, or gold. The earth's real treasure is far deeper."
"Fried squid, comin' up!"
In the Gudul delta, bloodfly bites are indistinguishable from spear wounds.

"The soul? Here, we have no use for such frivolities."
—Sitrik, birth priest



"Do not fear adversity. Let your courage be your strength."
—Onatah, Anaba Shaman

"Understand the Simic? That's about as easy as winning a staring contest with a homunculus."
—Dars Gostok, Firefist captain
"There is a sourness here that I don't understand. When the land reaches out to me, I hesitate to reach back."
—Nissa Revane
"I'm sorry, ma'am. Sometimes a real sword just sneaks its way in there."
—Randa, day care blacksmith



In the maze-like passages of the Erdwal, a wrong turn can be fatal.
"Water is in the air, the trees, and the earth. Understand its motion, speak its language, and the subtle currents that flow through all living things will fall under your command."


"A mysterious people indeed. Their origins are as secret as their traditions."
—Lord Magnus of Llanowar
"It was a strange morning. When we awoke, we found our trees transformed. We didn't know whether to water them or polish them."
—Pulan, Bant orchardist

Finding themselves in a new and unexplored world, they immediately set it on fire.
Bobbing merrily from opponent to opponent, the scimitar began adding playful little flourishes to its strokes; it even turned a couple of somersaults.
The grounds of the Riptide Project are now populated only by slivers, broken beakers, and the lonely screeching of gulls.

The harmony of the glorious is a dirge to the wicked.
"Some fool would rather throw a whole mech away than repair one hydraulic actuator? It must be my lucky day."
Every street corner is a hunting ground, every citizen potential prey.
"How thin is the veneer of civilization! A modest measure of panic will wash it off completely."
—Guard Erdrud of An Karras
"First blood isn't as important as last blood."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*

"There are always leftovers."
—Derecht, flesh carver
Flurk's crude goblin language didn't differentiate between "I *bring* the flame" and "I *am* the flame."

The upside to not thinking about the consequences is that you'll always surprise those who do.

Caught between life and death, between land and sea, between thought and oblivion.
Where the light falls dim and blue on broken ships, secrets lie unclaimed.

Born with wings of light and a sword of faith, this heavenly incarnation embodies both fury and purity.
She shepherds mysteries and dust as others would a flock of sheep.
Dead or alive, true leaders can inspire an entire army.

Earth Elementals have the eternal strength of stone and the endurance of mountains. Primordially connected to the land they inhabit, they take a long-term view of things, scorning the impetuous haste of short-lived mortal creatures.




"Anyone can snap her fingers and yank a soul. I prefer to kill creatively."
—Braids, dementia summoner
Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.
None know if this Giant is the result of aberrant magics, Siamese twins, or a mentalist's schizophrenia.
Its skin remains in a flowing, liquid state that keeps its body coated with potent restorative lymph.
"All dead move to the hollow rhythm of necromancy."
—Savra



Liliana developed a fondness for the moment when roaring becomes squealing.

Pretending to be inside an invisible box was easy enough for Brug. It was finding the invisible door that caused him problems.





"You could die famous or you could die old. I chose old."
—Former soldier
A fallen Viscerid's only tribute is to be worn by a comrade.
Hunters in the primeval wetlands become fluent in reading the ripples to tell when to pursue and when to flee.


There is no shortage of illegal salvage in Ghirapur, nor of those who are willing to profit from it.

"Rats and jackals feast in his swath, but even they will not walk with him."
—Mangara
"I find its symmetry pleasing. It rids our world of offensive refuse while disposing of itself."
—Dolomarus, Proctor of the Clean
"On this site where Kjeld's blood was spilled, let none raise a fist or deny a beggar."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest

"If they board us we're finished," warned Orim. Crovax nodded. "And if they don't . . . what then?"
The most frightening storms are those not woven by nature's hand.
Its blood is life. Its body is growth.



Primero en cargar, primero en luchar.


They say the Zombie Master controlled these foul creatures even before his own death, but now that he is one of them, nothing can make them betray him.



"Her beauty was the beauty of the Sun at midday, deadly to those who underestimated her strength."
—Azeworai, "Kenechi's Dream"

"Now I lay me down to sleep—
What are *you* starin' at?"

Azorius sphinxes are loyal to the precepts of the law, not to any particular guildmaster—even one of their own kind.
Stinking of rot, it leaps between gravestones in search of its next meal.

Her warriors are the last defense against the coming storm.
A symbol of what Mirrodin once was and hope for what it will be again.
Like a masterful quilter, Yavimaya stitches together patches of color to warn its denizens of threats.
"Always carry two spears."
—Mokgar, Kalonian hunter


"What cannot be destroyed will be bound."
—Oath of Avacyn
Spilled blood always begets more of the same.

"Virtue is virtue, whatever the heart that nurtures it."
—Malacan, Vantress exile
Like pools of fog that hid treacherous rocks from sailors' eyes, so too were the hands of the kami.


If you can't take the heat . . . well, that's going to be a problem.





"Oh, Valki. I'm disappointed in you. How could the god of lies be so gullible?"
—Tibalt


The choke point was the plan, but devoted camaraderie was always her strategy.
Gyara Spearhurler would have been renowned for her deadly accuracy, if it weren't for her deadly accuracy.
Weather is more predictable than the Izzet.


"The dragon has no pretense of compassion, no false mask of civilization—just hunger, heat, and need."
—Sarkhan Vol

The Eldrazi continue to sweep through the wastes, compounding destruction that already seemed absolute.
Waterways carve their routes through the land to reflect the paths the aether streams cut through the clouds.



"I had hoped to instill in it the loyalty of a guard dog, but with fire's power comes its unpredictability."
—Maggath, Sardian elementalist
"After these words the magician drew a ring off his finger, and put it on one of Aladdin's, saying: 'It is a talisman against all evil, so long as you obey me.'" —*The Arabian Nights*, Junior Classics trans.



You will scream out your innermost secrets just to make it stop.
"My quest? Why, to marry Ayara. Or die trying."
A flame-kin is always formidable, but feeding its fire with a sorcerous gift grants it the power to devastate armies.

"I once saw the Obzedat moved to action. Since that day, I've been thankful that they're mainly lazy, and dead."
—Aurelia, to Gideon Jura


"Never reject the kindness of a serpent. It will not be offered twice."
—Druidic manuscript fragment
Witches of the Split-Eye Coven speak of a future when Grixis will overflow with life energy. For now, they must harvest vis from the living to fuel their dark magics.
"Four parts molten bronze, yes . . . one part frozen mercury, yes, yes . . . but then what?"

Obsessed with the pursuit of knowledge above all else, vedalken can appear to be cold and emotionless.
"I love digging. It gives me lots of time to think about how much I love digging."

"Savagery is the birthright of every creature that draws breath—or wishes it could."
—Karador, Ghost Chieftain


A paragon of honor, Galo Aher fell to a blast of fire. The Order of the White Orchid was so saddened that they forged a new sigil in his likeness.
"Serves you right for rushing ahead."
—Kaliea, Sea Gate trapfinder
An efficient route from a smuggler's ship to a patriar's manor.
"I'll guard this fruit and its seedling until the land is healed. My life now belongs to Dominaria."

The goblins went to sleep in Jund and awoke in Grixis. They'd never seen a zombie before. They would never see one again.
"I escaped, so why do I still feel like I'm being watched?"
—Gregel, militia leader
"Fly us higher, out of its storm."
—Sisay, captain of the *Weatherlight*



"Only when my sword lies idle shall I rejoice."





"Fashion belongs to those with the luxuries of style and taste. I have both."

Some emeritus professors return from their wanderings periodically to share tales of the mystical wonders of Arcavios.
Jund feasts on the unprepared.
A faerie's glee at her trove quickly fades to contentment, then to boredom, then to an urge to steal more.
When a dragon attacks, there are no bystanders.
"She may call herself Kiora but I believe she is Thassa, the embodiment of the sea and empress of the depths."

To some mages, the meaning of life is less important than how much is left.




Few can withstand the wrath of the righteous.
"As our numbers dwindle, the ranks of the dead grow ever stronger."
—Thalia, Knight-Cathar

2021 Vintage Champion

"This metal junk is ugly, but it's got its uses."


He cares not for the disasters his storm brings as long as his path ahead is clear.
Families of the fallen donate the swords of their loved ones to bolster the city's defenses.
Courage alone won't keep you alive.



"He can split a marshfly in two from halfway across the range."
—Onean sergeant
"One does not question the size or shape of the grains of sand in an hourglass. Nor do I question the temperament of the souls under my guidance."

"I sang of storms, there came a squall. I sang of waves, the seas grew tall. I sang of love, but no voice called."



Long and powerful, these birds were used to carry messages to and from the evincar.
Call one, call them all.

"Hup, two, three, four,
Dunno how to count no more."
—Mogg march


"Nothing comes between me and my Didgeridoos™."

Oketra's closest viziers are known as her chosen, though others may have a better claim to that moniker.



Vampires, the noble class of old Torrezon, are guided by their dual loyalties to church and crown.
In a climate of suspicion, Isperia gathered the guilds to propose a radical idea: cooperation.
"Let go your grudges, or risk wandering the bogs forever in a murderous rage."
—Hildin, priest of Avacyn





A barricade only buys time. So the wealthy buy more barricades.
Lymph, the fluid essence of blinkmoths, is prized by wizards for the rush of intellect it provides.





When the blood hunt lost its thrill, she looked for less tangible means of domination.
"Tourach's power was such that his followers deified him after his death."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. II*
"What do a hero and an arrow have in common? In times of war are many more made."
—Elvish riddle

"The unpredictable fae are just as likely to provide a blight as a boon."
—Desmera, perfect of Wren's Run

"May you wake to find you were only ever a dream."
—Mephidross curse
"Mystery is beauty. Within the unknown we plumb revelation."
—Vannifar

Danitha watched in shock as electricity lanced from Jaya's fingertips, obliterating the charging Phyrexians. "What?" said the pyromancer serenely. "I told you I'd learned some new tricks."
"Take a quiet moment to reflect on your sins."
—Cleph, Order of Redeemed Souls



When one of Yavimaya's enormous magnigoth trees awakens into a treefolk, it is a towering presence of physical strength and ancient wisdom.





The earth cannot hold that which magic commands.

His mind is a tranquil meadow, his fists a raging storm.
Rakdos festivals almost leave enough rubble in their wake to hide the bodies.

Hunger is like the sea: deep, endless, and unforgiving.
"It makes better use of Uncle Dragi's head than he ever did."
—Pesha, retired blacksmith
Many tales of redcap terror begin with two simple things: bloodlust and stolen steel.





These stealthy felines have survived so many battles that some believe they must possess many lives.

She remembers every word spoken, from the hero's oath to the baby's cry.



"The 'fabled' Order of Stromgald is cast to the four winds, lost for all time. I, for one, give them no thought."
—General Varchild
All are welcome.

With Thraben's army recalled to its city walls, outlying villages were left to fend for themselves.
Elves of the immaculate class weave flora into living creatures—sometimes to endorse an elite warrior, sometimes to create a breathing work of art.


The maze-like design embodies the core of Azorius law—strict structure designed to test wills and stall change.


"You may feel a slight sting."
A passionate recruiter will win a war before the first arrow flies.

"Boss told us to try and train 'em. Trained it to attack—it ate Flugg. Trained it to run fast—it got away. Success!"
—Dlig, goblin spelunker


Panic spread like wildfire as the demons of Immersturm poured into Bretagard, slaughtering as they came.
The ogre appealed the match loss and got it downgraded to a warning.
Out of the blackness and stench of the engulfing swamp emerged a shimmering figure. Only the splattered armor and ichor-stained sword hinted at the unfathomable evil the knight had just laid waste.

On Ikoria, sandwurms never lie dormant for too long. In some regions, "no activity" is the greatest sign of danger.



Her wings are the prayers of the devoted; her sword, the despair of the vile.
"My 'condition' is a trial. The weak are consumed by it. The strong transcend it."
—Sorin Markov
A body clad in steel reflects a warrior's resolve.



"If this is thinking, I don't know what I was doing before."
" . . . When the trees bow down their heads, The wind is passing by."
—Christina Rossetti,
"Who Has Seen the Wind?"
"The dead make good soldiers. They can't disobey orders, never surrender, and don't stop fighting when a random body part falls off."
—Nevinyrral,
*Necromancer's Handbook*

"Death is tyranny. Like all tyranny, it must be opposed."

"It's difficult to heal a rift after it begins wandering about on its own."
—Teferi
Tritons search for omens in its wake.
"A resourceful mage has many sources of information. The best one is your foe."
—Zur the Enchanter
Her tales of glory light a fire in the souls of the next generation of adventurers.

His words echo every roar, screech, and howl of the wilds.
"One moment I was walking along the beach, and the next I was high in the air, staring into a hideous smiling face."
—Tarub, Suq'Ata sailor

Effective use of terrain is a lesson good commanders learn quickly.


Though many think of Wolves as solitary predators, they are actually extremely social animals. During a hunt they often call to each other, which can be quite unsettling for their prey.
An explorer's reward is a view of tomorrow's possibilities.
Forged by divine hands to wander mortal realms.
From the moment they arrived, wedding guests were met with a pageant of wealth and excess.
When the strands call, only the dead answer.
"Shar's will shall be done. As sure as night will fall."



At sunrise, the Champion and her companions awoke to find their supplies gone and Brygus, their sentry, dead. Carefully arranged piles of ornamental shells gave a clear warning: go no further.
—*The Theriad*
In Otiev's mind, he ruled in favor of the accused. But in his courtroom he was only a spectator, watching his hand deliver the sign of death.
"I do not know if the forest was different after they passed. But I know I was."
—Ianthe, Setessan hunter
"Those who have never ridden before the wind do not know the true joy of war."

"War is the crucible of leadership."
—Rashida Scalebane

Pray that it doesn't seek the safety of your lungs.

"Training and studies aid a soldier in meager amounts. The gods do the rest."
—Brigone, soldier of Meletis

Once a year, the skies over Paliano fill with the flying machines of those who hope to be taken on as pupils by the artificer Muzzio.



The corruption stirred the heavens above, awaking a shining champion.


Atarka serving-goblins coat themselves with grease imbued with noxious herbs, hoping to discourage their ravenous masters from adding them to the meal.





"Well, this can't be a good sign."
—Old Rutstein
For some customers, the old apothecary shop still opens its doors.

The mine's riches never end, nor do the moans of the spirits doomed to haunt them.

"We are one with the wild things. Life blooms from our fingertips and nature responds to our summons."
—Jade creed

For Sarkhan Vol, the dragon is the purest expression of life's savage splendor.
A blazing sun that never sets.

She's always willing to lend a hand. It just won't be her own.
Good bodyguards are hard to find, mainly because they don't live long.


"You are wrong," Volrath said. "I do not hate the living. They often prove quite useful to me." And then he laughed.
The smallest seed of regret can bloom into redemption.

"The constellations form a tapestry of light that traces my people's broken history. Day and night, I feel their glittering presence calling me to weave the pattern whole."
Knights are quick to pledge their loyalty and even quicker to charge into battle.
"Stalwart Soldiers, you stand against the Homarids for Vodalia and for honor. Your homeland cries out for protection, and the moment has come. Now let your valor shine, and sound the cry to battle. Victory to Vodalia!"
—Marshall Volnikov

New Phyrexia is an engine that both consumes and creates malice.
"The gods used their feathers to paint all the colors of the world."
—Yare-Tiva, warden of Gramur forest



"We're not sure what one looks like, so to be safe, nobody look at anything until we're out of here."
—Parbold Drix, veteran explorer


Tyranids flourish in any climate, dominate any ecosystem, crush any resistance.
Deathless soldiers called phylaskia guard the borders of the Underworld.



Nature is itself wild—in all its forms.
"If you think you are brave enough to walk the path of honor, follow me into the dragon's den."


"I see more than others do because I know where to look."
—Saprazzan vizier


It marks the border between here and hereafter.



Not all who remember Urza do so with fondness.




"Take their dead, and entomb them in the snow. Risen, they shall serve a new purpose."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer


"My pride may be gone, but our hunt is not over."

"You say you're capable of flying. You got any proof of that?"
Its insatiable hunger quickly depletes a region of prey. It must migrate from place to place to feed its massive bulk.
Its favorite treats are candied hands and sweet hearts.
"Wherever the strong would harm the weak, I will be there."
—Ajani Goldmane






She was born unable to walk. Through the eludha, she was able to fly.

Before Aurelia denounced Niv-Mizzet, the two guilds had collaborated on the Warmind Initiative in pursuit of the ultimate soldier.



"You sure you want to see what emerges? You might not like it. It definitely won't like you."
—Kinnan, bonder prodigy
Harrowing visions, paralyzing pain, and terrifying brain spasms await those who challenge the cult.

The Izzet signet is redesigned often, each time becoming closer to a vanity portrait of Niv-Mizzet.
Even the putrid muscles of the dead can provide strength to those loathsome enough to consume them.


"So much for neighborly hospitality!"

That gnat was still hovering by the venison, and now both looked delicious.


The light of the rising star empowers the champions of tomorrow.



"This strange new beast makes for an excellent meal. Get me more."
—Empress Galina
"The price isn't negotiable, but I'm sure you'll agree it's fair."
Forged by divine hands to wander mortal realms.
The Orzhov contract the Izzet to animate slum districts and banish them to the wastes. The Gruul adopt them and send them back to the city for vengeance.



The dead are lonely in the crypt and always eager for company.



"Now, *that's* a zombie!"
—Modriss of Zargoth Fen
"Slip in the back if you don't want to be recognized. Don't worry—we'll make sure you're never found!"
—Judith



Fear is its habitat, sanity its prey.




He's pretty sure he can't get charged with murder if he calls it "organic demolition."

They built a refuge with their bear hands.
"Hello, kindling."
Scavengers follow in Skysail's shadow, feasting on the carcasses of monsters that attacked the floating city.

The fear of slipping from the geist's tenuous grip overwhelmed Tolo's joy at his first flight.
Generations of genetic weeding have given rise to the deviously cowardly Ironclaw clan. To say that Orcs in general are vicious, depraved, and ignoble does not do justice to the Ironclaw.
It's always up-to-date, so visitors know what rides are open, how long the lines are, and which areas are closed due to gremlins.

"Ready? One... two..."




The weapon wields the hand that holds it.
Laquatus dreams of seizing control.
The Orzhov care not for repentance, only repayment.


At the waterfall, the border between the humanoid and the spirit worlds was weakest. The kami moved across it with ease and at will.

"Let everything return to its true nature, so that destiny may take its course."

A mimic's disguise fools its victims just long enough to draw them within range of its venomous tentacles.
"Who will miss you, drywalker? A wife? A child? Perhaps they will blame the sea for your fate, and teach future generations to stay far away from it."
Four claws, two wings, one beak, no fear.
It sees itself in all of its creations.
"It always amazes me what perfectly good things people throw away."
—Ludevic, necro-alchemist
Even the lost and undead need a protector.
"Kill the queen first, or we'll be fighting her drones forever. It is not in a queen's nature to have enough servants."
—Borzard, exterminator captain

With Olivia distracted, Sigarda tore free from her bindings and summoned her Host of Herons.
Beneath the waves, lost gods stir in their slumber.
They say the Zombie Master controlled these foul creatures even before his own death, but now that he is one of them, nothing can make them betray him.
"You'd best move along, human. Our palates are far less discerning than our master's."

2017 European Vintage Champion
"Within blood is life. Within life is fire. Within fire is the path to our masters' glory!"


In the dim light beneath the vast trees of Deepglade, baloths prowl in search of prey. Their guttural calls are more felt than heard, but their attack scream carries for miles.

Arvon was ecstatic to offer his blood to such a captivating creature.

One alone is dangerous, and they are never alone.
Mercadian soldiers excel at finding things to stand behind.







"There is a shining in the mortal heart that even the kami cannot reach."
—Sensei Golden-Tail

"Archery requires holding an enormous amount of tension and making it look effortless."

The mushroom wine made Gerrard's head spin, and his stomach soon followed suit.

"In the disarray of battle, an enemy's attack may be your most convenient weapon."
—Narset



Some people will hire anyone with a pulse. Myra isn't that picky.
It harmonizes with the essence of its master.

The knights are a major attraction at every Lammastide festival. Teams of riders perform daring feats of flight to the delight of all below.
Few remember that Ashnod's defilement of Terisiare's resources outstripped even that of her peers.
"The awestruck birds gazed at Wonder. Slowly, timidly, they rose into the air."
—*Scroll of Beginnings*
"Steel in the heart, silver in the bow."
—Wolfhunter's creed

Its shell can withstand anything but a thaw.

"The memory of your existence will fade like the final stars of morning."
—Kaervek



"Do as I think, not as I do."
—Jace Beleren
"The surface world contains nothing I cannot take."
—The Lord of Atlantis
"Werewolves leave messy trails. Easy to follow. Hard to forget."
"... Is it over?"


In the time it takes most to master one blade, he mastered two.
"It's not wise to keep glory waiting."

Zemoo found out the hard way that "inflammable" and "flammable" mean the same thing.



The investigator felt a pinch on his ankle. When he looked down, something glittered in the sand.

"When I grafted the Planar Bridge into myself, I felt my Planeswalker spark flare beyond my body. The Multiverse was my plaything. It felt . . . incredible."
—Tezzeret

True power is achieved through blood and sweat. But mostly blood.

"Go ahead. Take it. You'll be so very powerful . . . and what harm can it do?"


Never underestimate the power of panache.
You give your clients what they want at a fair price. What happens after that is none of your concern.
"Part drill sergeant, part training dummy," thought Gerrard. "I hope it can stand up to a real war."
"Tonight, we can be anything."
Blood, bone, and sinew are magnified, as is the rage that drives them. The brain, however, remains unchanged—a little bean, swinging by a strand in a cavernous, raving head.


You have traveled to many places, over mountains and across seas, but a new journey always calls.


Legend has it the darba gave up its wings in return for an extra stomach.

"There is no time for pain when this beast leaves its terrible sting."
—Jaeuhl Carthalion, Juniper Order Advocate

No spot in nature is truly barren.
"There are deep, deep places in this world that have long burned hot with little regard for the whitening of the earth's thin skin."
—Sek'Kuar, Deathkeeper



The banner was not a symbol of victory, but a herald of the carnage to come.
Ever wonder why you never see an old Rakdos cultist?
Taoists chose to be hermits for many reasons, but all shared one unchanging goal: to follow the Tao.
"I prefer loyalty to be a matter of respect, not of magic. But one does what one must."
—Kaalia of the Vast

Even the small wounds let hope bleed out.

"Our recruitment drives are bringing in fewer fresh troops every day. We need a new strategy."
—Urza, to Tawnos
"This abomination never belonged in our world. I'm merely setting it free."
—Dierk, geistmage
In Zendikar, today's grassland could be tomorrow's jungle, and hunting grounds change as quickly as the weather.


It possesses no intelligence, only counter-intelligence.
"Center of the Sea, Eye of the World, Shrine of Enlightenment. Seek it for answers. Seek it for healing. Seek it and return transformed."
—Scroll fragment from the ruins of Minamo


Loyal to his queen, slave to his thirst.

The path to genius is forged in creativity.
"This god held prisoner in human hands has put all humanity in the hands of angry gods."
—Masako the Humorless


. . . but the price of Mangara's freedom was Asmira's life.
"For justice and peace, I will keep watch."
"The fortress is not what it seems."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist

"Mana grows and changes like the roots of a plant. Like a plant, it must be nurtured."
—Nissa Revane


If it can't be had here, it can't be had on any world.
It doesn't like having visitors . . . unless it's having them for lunch.
"Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks! rage! blow!"
—William Shakespeare, King Lear
From nothingness, sustenance.
Cartouches chronicle the initiates' achievements in the trials.
Called "stonefeathers" by many lowlanders, rukhs are thought to descend from a phoenix that sacrificed its flame for a body of stone.


The squirming is how you know it's fresh.
"Sacrificing mortal dragons to satisfy your immortal hunger ends here."
—Darigaaz, to Rith
"Until the Rebellion, Thrulls served their masters faithfully—even at the cost of their own lives."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. II*

"Hunters feed on the fear of their prey."
—Garruk Wildspeaker



"The union of sea and sky makes a perfect cover."
—Talrand, sky summoner



"I'm feeling generous. I'll let you choose the blade that slays you."


Few Nayans dare hunt the gargantuans. They're regarded not as animals but as forces of nature, like landslides or typhoons.
When wielded by a true believer, it matters little whether the sword is a relic or a replica.


Gloomwidow venom is particularly virulent during the spider's first years, when it does most of its hunting near the forest floor.
"Capturing this specimen was not easy. Study it well, that you someday might be as versatile."
—Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen
"The hum of the universe is never off-key."
—Mystic elder
The furnace awaits the next master who would stoke the fires of apocalypse.
"Of course it's part of my plan. Who do you think started the bar fight?"
"Sure, I could set things on fire by myself. But teamwork can be fun, too."


The rising oceans brought new lakes—and new terrors—to Terisiare. The Explorers found their ancient enemies spawning everywhere.




Even when fate is already written, there's always time to change the names.
Uthlon the Wise scandalized sphinx society, hooting the answers to riddles as he rampaged through Tin Street. Grangle, on the other hand, sat for hours, deep in thought, largely ignored by fellow goblins.


The rendezvous took place hours ago, but the Obscura agent read the residue with ease.
www.MagicTheGathering.com
www.mtg-jp.com

Her true theft was to steal the soldiers away from their posts.
Those who forget the horrors of the past are doomed to re-meet them.
"May angels carry him into the Blessed Sleep with dreams of sunlit days and moonless nights."
—Tomb inscription of Saint Raban


"The spirits of old have not left us unguarded."
—Uros, Pendelhaven elder
The elvish scout was scrupulous about the truth. She told the traders that gold lay nearby.





Webs of illusion unravel in the light of truth.

"Flame grows gentle with but a little distance."
—Orim, Samite healer

Idealism fits him better than his armor.

"He traded sand for skins, skins for gold, gold for life. In the end, he traded life for sand."
—Afari, *Tales*
Dreams' riches are easily spent.
—Suq'Ata adage
All who listen hear their own song, a unique melody played just for them.
"Neither the false God-Pharaoh nor his bugs will decide our fate."
—Samut, former Tah-crop initiate



An angel's blessing prepares a soldier for war better than a thousand military drills.

It's there when a seed sprouts, when gourds ripen on the vines, and when the reapers cut the grains under the Harvest Moon.



"Swords cannot reach far enough. Chains cannot strike hard enough. An eternal dilemma, but a simple one."

Beauty is a seed, waiting to blossom under her capable hands.



"The fury in the lion's eye;
the patience in the hippo's yawn;
the pride within the griffin's cry
are one within the iron tusk's stride."
—"Iron Tusk," Femeref song
The priests tried cursing it. The mages tried dispelling it. In the end, they all obeyed it.

"No worthwhile reward is easily gained."
—Nicol Bolas
Some akki thought of Ben-Ben as a kami of trickery in disguise. They hunted for him in the maze of warrens, often falling prey to his traps.



"It is not in me to tread lightly."
—Ryda, geomancer

Wind in the trees is soothing, but the same can't be said for trees on the wind.
"The efreet is a striding storm with a voice that crackles like fire."
—Qhattib, vizier of Amiqat


"Each day there are new reports of homes along Getander Pass and Hofsaddel falling to vampires of a more savage nature. I've even heard tell that Anje Falkenrath has returned. Please send whatever help you can."
—Sterin Gorn, letter to Thalia
The blessing adds both protection to the recipient and weightlessness to the stone.



"The air stirred as if fanned by angels' wings, and the enemy was turned aside."
—Tales of Ikarov the Voyager


As Orim put the lightning rod into place on the bow, she cast a spell of protection to shield herself from the heat. That's when the Furnace got personal.
Amonkhet's dead flowed into a new world in service to their God-Pharaoh.
All Necrons bear the mark of the Triarch, a brand upon their living-metal skin that binds them to their dynasty.


"Quiet in the library" soon gave way to larger concerns.
Action: Please design a Simic device that turns smaller creatures into big flying beasts.



"Try to pretend like you understand what's important."
"The dragon is a perfect marriage of power and the will to use it."
—Sarkhan Vol
Not all elves embrace the pastoral life. Some still roam the forest's edge, forever making war against their hated enemies.
Draped with the pennon of a fallen outpost, the sword came to symbolize the peoples of Zendikar becoming one.
"Ancient ones, I call on you, your wisdom and your power, your will to claim again all that is rightfully yours."

"And if I'm lying," he began . . .











The mind is a beautiful bounty encased in an annoying bone container.
It is everywhere you've ever been.
"Dig over there, you bolthead!"


The courageous accomplish more in a single moment than the cowardly do in a lifetime.
"And through the drifts the snowy cliffs/ Did send a dismal sheen:/ Nor shapes of men nor beasts we ken—/ The ice was all between."/
—Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"

"Sing, beauty. Sing for death, and for the dead."
—Ashiok
The Arturan conjurers took the strange, alien fossil and patterned their own twisted creations in its image.
"This is how wars are won—not with armies of soldiers but with a single knife blade, artfully placed."
—Yurin, royal assassin






"Let no child be without a sword. We will all fight, for if we fail, we will certainly all die."
—Oracle *en*-Vec





"Ravnicans need order. If they don't have it, we shall bring it to them."
—Isperia
Rather than sheltering her young, the female Fungusaur often injures her own offspring, thereby ensuring their rapid growth.






"I have led ten thousand through these mists and never lost the way."
"Be like the sea: flow around that which is unmovable; for everything else, crash into it unrelentingly."



An early inspiration for Urza, Tocasia's Onulets contained magical essences that could be cannibalized after they stopped functioning.
Every branch a crossroads, every vine a swift steed.

Hatred is a potent ally, but an insatiable master.
"Grux, for the last time, you have to do more than simply shout 'Apply!' at the administrators."
—Pavil, admissions officer



All Auriok children know the tale, "Bolgri and the Long Day of Squashing."

The snap of sinew. The crunch of bone. A cry for mercy. These are the music of the Gruul.


"That energy was once granted to growing things. Now the kami keep it for themselves, releasing it in sudden floods that overwhelm flesh and foliage alike."
—Sakiko, Mother of Summer

Options will cost you, but a lack of them will cost you even more.
Pardic barbarians didn't complain when the Order started blaming every crisis on the Cabal.
While the root remains, the tree yet lives.

Jace traced Nahiri to the Singing City, but the magic of the ancient ruins threatened to overwhelm his mind.


Success at Valor's Reach requires not only individual skill but also the ability to merge that skill with a partner's.
"I knew that trick long before your great-grandmother's great-grandmother was born."

"I can't bear to see another plane broken before I make my own home whole. I'm sorry, but my watch is over."
The "gifted" among the aetherborn can draw the life essence of other living beings into themselves.
"May you be strong and valiant, to defeat the enemies of the pure."
—"Leitbur's Prayer"

"Don't make splashes. Make progress."
—Tishana
Mood: A spell that protects her from her enemies.



Few diplomats can resist the charm of Her Serene Highness's imperial seal.






"Ask the right questions in the right way and truth is inevitable."
—Lazav


"There is no worse enemy. His passion for death doesn't just border on insanity, it wallows in it."
—Southern paladin

"There are intriguing similarities between the Order and Icatia's Leitbur religion, suggesting the two had a common origin."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. VI*
"As flies to wanton boys, are we to the gods. They kill us for their sport."
—William Shakespeare, *King Lear*
Some wicked souls linger only to consume the warmth of life.



The wise always keep an ear open to the whispers of power.
The Seekers of Carmot searched across the unknown lands for the mystical red stone that could reforge Esper in ethereal perfection.
"Don't worry. I'm not going to deprive you of all your secrets. Just your most precious one."
—Liliana Vess

Silumgar never passes up an opportunity to add to his opulence.




A master of tactics, the lord of Atlantis makes his people bold in battle merely by arriving to lead them.

"Oathbreaker, I cast you out!"

The Walking Dead are the remains of freakish experiments by the Necromantic Lords.



"Sometimes I snare the unexpected, but I know its purpose will be revealed in time."
She remembers every word spoken, from the hero's oath to the baby's cry.
". . . [T]he magician drew a ring off his finger . . . , saying: 'It is a talisman against all evil, so long as you obey me.'"
—*The Arabian Nights*,
Junior Classics trans.
"I appreciate the help, and honestly, it's very entertaining."
—Isabough of the Biblioplex
Love is like a rhino, short-sighted and hasty; if it cannot find a way, it will make a way.
—Femeref adage
To train her elves for war, Mayael would drop a sackful of acorns from the tree canopy. Each archer tried to split as many as possible before the acorns hit the forest floor below.

Don't try to outrun one of Dominia's Grizzlies; it'll catch you, knock you down, and eat you. Of course, you could run up a tree. In that case you'll get a nice view before it knocks the tree down and eats you.
Panic spread like wildfire as the demons of Immersturm poured into Bretagard, slaughtering as they came.
"Subtlety is overrated."
—Mr. Orfeo, the Boulder
"Are the gods angry at our discontent with what they give us, or jealous that we made a thing they cannot?"
—Kleon the Iron-Booted

An explorer's essentials in a wild world.

"Virtue is virtue, whatever the heart that nurtures it."
—Malacan, Vantress exile

Atarka serving-goblins coat themselves with grease imbued with noxious herbs, hoping to discourage their ravenous masters from adding them to the meal.
"You slew the gorgon? Show me."
—King Igalus, last words


"Grab an axe and defend the gate! Your despair is an extravagance we can ill afford."
—Thalia, Knight-Cathar




Rainclouds don't last long in Shiv, but that doesn't stop the lightning.
Follow the light. In its absence, follow her.



"While, like a ghastly rapid river, Through the pale door, A hideous throng rush out forever, And laugh—but smile no more." —Edgar Allan Poe, "The Haunted Palace"

"If a man will begin with certainties, he shall end in doubts."
—Sir Francis Bacon,
*The Advancement of Learning*
"Every treachery, great or small, begets a spirit that rages at the injustice. Given the opportunity, each will return that treachery to its owner tenfold."
—Sensei Hisoka

"I've already seen so much evil, so much darkness. Why do you insist on adding more?"
—Nissa Revane, to Dwynen
Nephalia is home to many hard-shelled creatures of unusual size, the largest of which are either avoided or worshipped.
"We aided the Balduvians once before. They need but ask and we shall do so again."
—King Darien of Kjeldor


Farmer Brown never ate eggs again.
"Every patch of land must belong to Kjeldor, no matter what the cost!"
—General Varchild

The knight knelt and prayed, first for the sanctity of his land and second for the strength to repel its invaders.

"Your contract is in default. You belong to me now. Serve, or die."
—Nicol Bolas
Its courtyards are lit during every hour of the day so that night may never fall within its walls.

Gix pierced his disciples' minds and savored their experiences as he took in their knowledge.

When Lord Rakdos stirred from his slumber, everyone else's nightmare began.
"Don't be fooled. If it were as docile as it looks, it would've died off long ago."
—Yon Basrel, Oran-Rief survivalist



"I won't tell you or anyone else where my son is. Ever."
—Tamiyo

The stench in the hovel was overpowering; something loathsome was cooking. Occasionally something surfaced in the thick paste, but my host would casually push it down before I could make out what it was.


In desolate places, changelings may take the shape of fancies, or memories, or fears.
"Divine gifts are granted to those who are worthy."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran Priest



"You have to appreciate the genius of it. Why bother building defenses when you can just fill the pass with angry ogres?"
—Javad Nasrin, Ondu relic hunter


"Do not think me blind to your true mission...or your true master, Grand Arbiter."
Everything it sees it considers food—and with that many eyes, it's not liable to miss much.
Every little cub has its mother's teeth to guard it.
—Elvish saying
There is always a greater power.


"The land promises nothing and keeps its promise."
—Oracle *en*-Vec






The magic of the River Heralds is so great that even a single shaman can fend off a pirate landing party.



Riddles draw you in, paradoxes hold you fast, and answers shatter your perceptions.
These stubborn and unpredictable oxen inspire the plains nomads' most colorful curses.
"We speak the dragons' language of flame and rage. They speak our language of fury and honor. Together we shall weave a tale of destruction without equal."

"Some cannot be saved as they are, but all can serve the Worldsoul."
—Trostani


Those who bring nothing to the temple take nothing away.
"And through the drifts the snowy cliffs
Did send a dismal sheen:
Nor shapes of men nor beasts we ken—
The ice was all between."
—Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
Those who live amid decay must expect scavengers.

The villagers call it "winged stench."
"I'm raising an army. Any volunteers?"



When honormancers work together, their compliments are complementary.



"What you call decay, I call ripening. You'll gain no sustenance from this harvest."
—Kaervek
Urza convinced many Dominarians not only to set aside their differences, but to embrace them.
Among the pirates of the Brazen Coalition, the only thing more dangerous than failure is success.
The Aurora is not the only magic capable of remaking a world.
The elves of Llanowar don't trust in alchemy. They rely instead on pure herbs harvested from the forest's sacred heart.
The erupting flames work as both barrier and weapon.

When nothing remains, everything is equally possible.

"After waking to the magic of Llanowar, no dreams can compare."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight*
"You wouldn't like me when I'm angry."



"Go for the knees! The last giant who tried to get past us got rolled back down the mountain in a dozen pieces."

"Such an affliction appears to seek out the pure."
—Byro, plague doctor

"Just take a little off the top."
"We searched their bodies for signs of the blades that had killed them, but found nothing more than scorched flesh."
—Tender-Hand, kitsune healer
"In memories, we can find our deepest reserves of strength."
"Our buried kings silently await the revolt of dead peasants."
—Tuwile, mundungu of Aku

The elves of Llanowar look to their past to determine the shape of their future.
"Any ship that sails on these mean seas for long is bound to pick up a ghost or two."
—Admiral Beckett Brass
A weapon best suited for those with good aim and steady hands.
"Hi! ni! ya! Behold the man of flint, that's me! Four lightnings zigzag from me, strike and return."
—Navajo war chant



"Obey!"
The griffin's shadow gives courage to the righteous and dread to the idle.
Gravity is truly what you make of it.

"Striking silent as a dream,/ Cutting short the strangled scream . . ." —Tobrian, "Watchdragon"
"Weave the magic so that it sings to you, and will always fly home . . . ."
—Verduran teaching

Armodons are trained to step on things. Enemy things.

"This is the source, the line unbroken since the calamity that brought such monsters to our shores."
—Hastric, Thunian scout

It was a night like any other. It would soon become a night no one would ever forget.
Descended from Old Capenna's paladins, the Brokers are masters of defensive combat.



Rising waters, sinking hope.
"I can see . . . everything. The beginning and the end of time. The raw edges of reality. And now I see exactly how to kill you."





For years, the five families ruled New Capenna in uneasy peace, and the city prospered.
Ixidor had only to imagine their ruin and Akroma made it so.

She focused her mind on the volcano's fury, and hers erupted in kind.

"Truly understanding even one volume can be a life's work."
—Naru Meha, master wizard
The fire spell stuttered and broke. Its pieces reached Teferi out of rhythm, meaningless.





"You shouldn't be so attached to something as fragile as flesh."
—Zul Ashur, lich lord


"Tourach's power was such that his followers deified him after his death."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. II*
The dragons perching in Freejam's towers symbolize the zone's fierce independence.
The deadliest force on Mirrodin isn't the largest organism—it's the smallest.


"We need not fear the forces of the air; I've yet to see a Spider without an appetite."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, Elvish Hunter
The wolf's startled yelp changed quickly to a howl of elation as she soared over her envious packmates.
Konda's servants dared not neglect their duties for a moment under Masako's icy gaze, knowing that what she saw, Lord Konda would hear.

"Just the thing for those pesky water mages."
—Jaya Ballard, task mage


"Practice makes perfect, but obsession makes better."
"We are all inextricably linked, souls woven in tapestry."

All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.
The Aurora transformed Nibb and Gyik from mischief-makers into feral marauders. They still don't know much about tool safety.
Held aloft by metabolized magic, trygons are ravenous for sources of mystic fuel.
"In Barrin's name!" cried Lyna as Hanna's sword passed through her, "Ertai sends word that the portal is open—but not for long!"

For every eye gouged out, two blinked open.

"Seeing a pack of these monsters hunt together, I'm at a loss to imagine the size of their prey."
—Adrian Adanto of Lujio



Bones scattered around us joined to form misshapen bodies. We struck at them repeatedly—they fell, but soon formed again, with the same mocking look on their faceless skulls.
The Blessed Sleep doesn't come easily to a mind chained by regrets.

They were formidable even before they learned the use of weapons.
On Jund, even the landscape is a deadly hunter. Volcanoes, tar pits, and rock slides seem to prey upon the living.
"I do not know which gives me more pride: the legions of soldiers marching in thunderous lockstep, or the cry of the skyknights riding their rocs like jagged lightning overhead."
—Razia

The oil sloshes against his skull as he nears his destination: the Frogtosser Games and the lighting of the Flaming Boggart.



The Simic soon discovered that the sky offered as few constraints on size as the sea.

Friends teach what you want to know. Enemies teach what you *need* to know.

"The Sultai came hunting for a bear hide. Now I have a belt of naga skin, and my friend has a full belly."
Paulo Vitor Damo da Rosa, World Champion XXVI
"You can't trust your eyes. A tree might look healthy, but its insides tell a different tale."
—Zahr Gada, Halimar expedition leader
"Nature's been fired. The oceans are under new management."
—Ambassador Laquatus
"Nothing ruins a party like one of those big killjoys bursting through the door and setting all the guests free."
—Ruba, Rakdos cultist
Why did the chicken cross the park? To get to the other ride.
"The world was not hostile to us—we were beneath its notice, and presented no danger."
—*The Invokers' Tales*
The continent of Guul Draz is a geothermal swampland reeking of heat and decay.

"Magic cast through a hand of flesh is just as weak as the flesh itself."
—Lodus of the Ethersworn

"Merciless to the point of psychosis. Let's give him a job."
—Zelinas, Orzhov recruiter


"Nothing can stop the power of life—not even death."
—Onean cleric


"Bolas remade this place in his image. He has the advantage here. We must approach carefully."
—Jace Beleren





"To die for a cause and continue to serve it is the truest mark of loyalty."
"Gix failed. I shall not."
Pia's passion was directed at the big picture—at making real, lasting change.

"I am the Guardian of Thraben, and I claim my right to speak before the council."





Three little goblins, enjoying their brew. One bumped an ogre, and then there were two.

As long as the stronghold controlled the sky, the rebels were doomed.
"This 'standing windstorm' can hold us off indefinitely? Ridiculous!" Saying nothing, she put a pinch of salt on the table. With a bang she clapped her hands, and the salt disappeared, blown away.

The forest rose to the battle, not to save the people, but to save itself.

Light streaked down from the heavens, and a voice whispered in the soldier's ear: "You shall not fall today."
"I'll return once you've ripened."
—Ghoulcaller Gisa
"The people of Aysen built their roads with stones from these wonders. Aliban would be pleased with their ingenuity."
—Baki, Wizard Attendant

Once a vision of constancy in the sky, the moon had long been hidden from view by the haze that chokes the heavens. The very sight of it had become a sign that change was in the air.




The purest devotion isn't the Blood Fast itself, but the craving that follows.

Where the dead outnumbered the living, mimics scavenged faces from the fallen.
"Guilty."
"Challenge me with your strongest. I will paint my sword with their blood."
"I reeled from the blow, and then suddenly, I knew exactly what to do. Within moments, victory was mine."
—Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran royal mage

"My people are bound by masters centuries dead. Each artifact we destroy is another link broken in that chain."
—Barb Tail, viashino heretic

To become an officer, an Icatian soldier had to pass a series of tests. These evaluated not only fighting and leadership skills, but also integrity, honor, and moral strength.

His triumph came not from victory over his enemies, but from the salvation of those who survived.





Hope of deliverance is scorched by the fire of futility.




The horror lurched about like a puppet from a madman's nightmare, squeezing the life from its own kind.


"Those who are different are untrustworthy, unpredictable. Put your safety in the hands of your own kind."
—Bowen, Barrenton guardcaptain
"Too much work—it takes a long time to break them in, and more than a few recruits."
—Grebog, goblin swine-rider


"I see countless worlds. What makes them think I can't find them in just one?"
—Ral Zarek
"Math bites."
—Bim, Lorehold mage-student

The wise always keep an ear open to the whispers of power.
The greatest minds in Meletis study under the masters at the Dekatia, a renowned school of magic and philosophy.


"Let's see . . . Mercadia, mercenary, merfolk . . . you know, I really need a better filing system."
"Rise and serve me once more."
—Trazyn the Infinity
"Let the rest of Ravnica sneer. One way or another, they all end up in the undercity."
—Jarad
Their stench was vile and strong enough, but not nearly as powerful as their hunger.
"There is nothing you can do that I cannot simply deny."
—Ertai, wizard adept


What the show lacks in historical accuracy, it makes up for in awesome submission holds.

"You know it's a great show when the Azorius arrest the props, too!"
—Judith, the Scourge Diva
Mourning shifts seamlessly to celebration as she chooses her next suitor.
"If that brain can't figure out the secret of the serum, then add more brains."
—Rhmir, Hand of the Augur

Dimir's best agents hide from death itself.

Wounded soldiers looked up, grateful for her appearance. But she passed over them, her eyes firmly on their foe.
As blood touched the empty page, it formed words that seared themselves into the wizard's mind.
"They are quick to offer advice, those whose mistakes doomed them to undeath. How can I not listen to the wisdom of failure?"
—Ratadrabik of Urborg






"The people wiped the sand from their eyes and cursed—and left the barren land to the hyenas and vipers."
—Afari, *Tales*

While the realm has laws, in the wilds there are other ways of balancing power.



"If you remember nothing else of our world's history, remember this: Phyrexians can be defeated."
—Jodah
The most ferocious saddlebrutes lead the assault, ramming through massed pikes and stout barricades as if they were paper and silk.
Students of the kitsune-led Golden-Tail Academy in Eiganjo are unparalleled in both martial skill and dedication to the Imperial cause.
"Our ancestors brought down a Phyrexian portal ship, then built our town on its hull. We're pretty proud of that."
—Alene of Riverspan

"Light passing through a powerstone is refracted by eternity and colored by planar energy. I wonder how the world appeared through Urza's eyes?"
—Teferi


Webs of illusion unravel in the light of truth.

"The clouds came alive and dove to the earth! Hooves flashed among the dark army, who fled before the spectacle of fury."
—*Song of All*, canto 211

"In my dreams, I hear the voices of my future selves who have died in times yet to come. I use that knowledge to avoid those dark futures and continue my search for peace."
"After years of study, I've learned an important lesson: the relics we watch may be watching us back."
—Anowon, the Ruin Sage
The continent of Murasa lies beneath a blanket of dense vegetation, its enormous branches tangled so thickly that some inhabitants never see the ground.
As the great scourge passed by, Zendikar shivered, then lay silent.
When the giant returned for the night, he found a dead merfolk on his pillow. Although he praised the little guma, he inwardly wondered where she had hid the head.
Naya's bounty spills over upon itself. Each leaf and flower struggles against the next with thrashing thorns, acidic pollen, and strangling roots.


Structures built from darksteel yield to neither assault nor age.
"From a sea of infinite possibilities, our choices create the future."
—Mu Yanling
Public access terminals around Towashi provide residents with up-to-date information on everything from traffic delays to hostile kami sightings.

Twang. You're dead.

Her footsteps are whispers, her passage a last breath.



"Life grows everywhere. My kin merely find those places where it grows strongest."
—Nissa Revane
"Try to pretend like you understand what's important."
"Strength in numbers? I think not."
—Gerrard

2021 Vintage Champion

"Strike," the fumes hiss. "Raise an empire with your ambition."



Crovax was nearly buried beneath the weight of his opponents.



Many ogres extracted blood oaths from the oni they summoned. Others simply extracted blood.
"I see you've learned nothing, Chandra. You'd still put a match to something rather than understand it."



"I can't control its mind—I'm not even sure it has one. But I can dominate its will."
"To sail through those waters is to offer oneself as tribute."
—Captain Hoyrik
"The land promises nothing and keeps its promise."
—Oracle en-Vec
"Speculation is foolish when the tools of certainty are available."
—Cinna, vedalken consul



"Soulless demon, you are bound to me. Now we will both dwell in oblivion."



Each time it is sent to find a safe haven, it takes longer to return.

"We have a word for enemies too mutilated for military service: furniture."
—Taigam, Sidisi's Hand

The light washed over him, and in the wind he heard the roars of all the pridemates who had come before.


Spitting is the customary greeting between a creature and its magical impostor.


"Finally, a good use for an Azorius courthouse."
—Ghut Rak, Gruul guildmage


"I am not at liberty to reveal my sources, but I can assure you, the price on your head is high."

His prowess gives the guildless hope that they can hold out against tyranny.



"To be in the presence of a revoker is to be truly alone."
—Kara Vrist, Neurok agent


"From shards and splinters I call forth my living horde."
—Molimo, maro-sorcerer

Count carefully the souls and see that none are lost.
—Vec teaching
Magic can knit the body back together, but the courage to fight on comes only from within.

"In case any of you new recruits were wondering, this is why we don't use mass graves anymore."
—Kerren of the Mausoleum Guards

He collects the precious metals, and then converts the rest to propellant.


"The spirits of old have not left us unguarded."
—Uros, Pendelhaven elder




The Riptide Project was perhaps the only school devoted to preventing the spread of knowledge.

Reach out and torch someone.
Start with eleven gnomes and a room of parts, and come morning you'll have ten and a monster the likes of which you've never seen.

Chainer's dark gift to a darker soul.


"This horn is an exact replica of the fabled Horn of Ramos, except mine is more lavish."
—Mercadian magistrate


The great leaves are resilient underfoot. Heavy steps do not bruise them, but release a sweet and spicy scent.

A sojourn through time gave dark inspiration to one gifted young mind.

"Tools and artisans can be destroyed, but the act of creation is inviolate."
—Elspeth Tirel






On still nights you can hear its rotted teeth grinding tirelessly on scavenged bones.
Enter and leave the shackles of society behind.
The horizon is tantalizing in both its uncertainty and its potential.

Its power source is time itself. It absorbs unused minutes and hours, bringing the end of existence always closer.

Give away everything so others have nothing.
—Brooch inscription

"I can't hear them scream, but at least I don't have to listen to them beg."
—Phage the Untouchable
"So they want to kill my men? Well two can play at that game."
—General Khurzog
"That name shall not be spoken."
—Baral, Chief of Compliance
As Serra was to learn, the peace and sanctity of her realm were as fragile as glass.


"Some solve problems by thinking and talking. Others use rocks."
—Toggo, goblin weaponsmith


"Here in Fyndhorn, the goddess Freyalise is generous to her children."
—Kolbjörn, elder druid of the Juniper Order

"This world reeks of another's hand. Someone or something is defying the power of the gods and shaping this planet. I intend for it to stop."
—Glissa Sunseeker

He calls on the forests for counsel and summons the earth to his cause.





Good help is hard to dig up.
No single root feeds the forest.
"The burst of strength brought on by this plague should not be mistaken for a sign of renewed health."
—Kolbjörn, High Honored Druid
Freyalise promised a dawn that would never end, a day of limitless life. As many dread her promise as revere it.

In that battleground of a ring, the rules aren't nearly so black and white.

"My child grew from rot and ruin, yet she bloomed."
—Multani



What these devices lacked in subtlety, they made up in strength.


"Those who do not ride the wind on Aesthir still command loyalty and respect."
—Arna Kennerüd, Skyknight
"There's only one route from Kessig into Stensia. Unless you come with me."



The giant was felt a few seconds before he was seen.
"I will not live as a slave. If you would be free, then fight alongside me."
It scattered falcons like a lion hunting among jackals.

"The world above the waterline must be monitored—and, when necessary, adjusted."
Grace repels darkness.
To the Golgari, anything buried is treasure.

Nicol Bolas doesn't distinguish between servants and victims.


Inspired by fishing raptors, Tawnos designed the drake's talons to seize prey with overwhelming speed and precision.






"Count yourself lucky it only broke your kitesail. Get that close to the nest again and it'll be your face."
—Huatli


It started as a mere drop of water. The Magic Mirror crystallized it into much more.


The devil appreciated the irony of using doves for ammunition. The townsfolk, not so much.
The ashes of the dead mingle with the soil, and both become as one.
Tracing the horizon in a dance of wind and fire.
"The Great River will not be tamed."



"Are you thinking what I'm thinking?"
"There was clearly a scream. I'm not sure if there was a mouth."
—Sachir, Akoum Expeditionary House
As the Mirari's mutating effects grew out of control, centaurs and druids fled—but insects swarmed closer.

"Four parts molten bronze, yes . . . one part frozen mercury, yes, yes . . . but then what?"
"Leshrac, my liege, grant me the power I am due."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
Devils redecorate every room with fire.
Witches of the Split-Eye Coven speak of a future when Grixis will overflow with life energy. For now, they must harvest vis from the living to fuel their dark magics.

"It's a thankless job, and you'll probably die in an explosion. But the pay is pretty good."
—Toothlicker Harj, orcish captain
Afterward, Tolaria's winds were like the whispers of lost wizards, calling for life.



"Don't worry about me, folks! This beauty was well-fed by my predecessor."
Beyond lies the culmination of all Izzet projects, a grand experiment led by the dragon Niv-Mizzet himself.
The patrol found the graf empty save for a few well-chewed bones.
A weapon of evil, redeemed in Gideon's hand.

The amorphous, magically animated residue known as the Fathom Sludge lurks in the Hagra Cistern, attacking its prey with pseudopods and dragging it down to be digested.

"The soldier's path is worn smooth by the tread of many feet—all in one direction, none returning."
—Oracle *en*-Vec

Kruphix hid the most dire prophecies about humankind where humans would never find them and tritons wouldn't care to read them.


"If I fail, my head is yours."
—Warrior's oath common during the Three Kingdoms period
With innovative stabilizing techniques, Suja Pavani brings this piece of the sky itself to the Inventors' Fair.
"From the sea came all life, and to the sea it will return. The sooner the better."
—Emperor Aboshan
The carnage of conflicts long past still stains the Otarian soil.


"I have no need of a map. The continent itself guides my way."


"What is mana but possibility, an idea not yet given form?"
—Jhoira, master artificer
The Night Serpent tasted the warlock's ambition and savored the dark hunger in her soul.



"Perhaps you believe, even in these final moments, that you will be saved. But doom has no snooze button, you fools!"
—Baron Von Count

Avenant's archers are also trained as poets, so that each arrow is guided by a fragment of verse.
The hive has a long memory. It knows how every member ever died, and to whom it owes the grudge.


The streets of Ravnica are full of former guild members now using their institutional skills for personal gain.

"Jharic returned from Grixis changed, a haunted look in her eyes. She destroyed them with an unholy glee that made me shudder."
—Knight-Captain Wyhorn
The Hold, an illegal research facility in a derelict merchant ship, became a wellspring of renegade intelligence.
The Fountain had stood in the town square for centuries, but only the pigeons knew its secret.

Fight with a friend at your back, steel in your hands, and magic in your veins.
—Quirion creed

Her sword sings more beautifully than any choir.



"It's like blowing up an arcane library in a thermobaric explosion. But in a good way."
—Bori Andon, Izzet blastseeker

The person who finishes a journey is rarely the same as the one who starts it.



Generations of genetic weeding have given rise to the deviously cowardly Ironclaw clan. To say that Orcs in general are vicious, depraved, and ignoble does not do justice to the Ironclaw.

"One does not question the size or shape of the grains of sand in an hourglass. Nor do I question the temperament of the souls under my guidance."



"Yesterday's relics will determine the outcome of tomorrow's war."
—Ushanti, leonin seer
All suns must set.
"And would you care to explain why your satchel is radiating an aura of unstable energy?"

"Trust me. When you have earned a god's favor, you'll know."
Finding an unexplored world, they immediately set it on fire.
Good bodyguards are hard to find, mainly because they don't live long.


"Size alone does not guarantee survival."
—Vorinclex, Voice of Hunger


A blazing sun that never sets.
Deadly mushrooms litter these woods, each waiting for an errant footstep to release its noxious spores.

The last survivor of her patrol, the warrior returned expecting disappointment and scorn. Instead she found gratitude. "You are alive. That is reason to celebrate."
Near Tel-Jilad, the Tangle is almost silent, save for the trolls' chants and the skittering of needlebugs.

"As the sun sets to make way for dawn, so we turn to darkness to bring about the coming salvation."

"You wish to remember this lesson? I will write it down for you."
—Senifet, vizier of Bontu


"A richer people could give more but they could never give as much."
After Uda's hat boutique in Selhoff was destroyed by werewolves, she relocated outside of town and took up a new type of sewing.
They wouldn't know their house from a charred hole in the ground.
"I will follow the light of Iona into battle, and I will know no fear."

"Silumgar's mind is a dark labyrinth, full of grim secrets and subtle traps."
—Siara, the Dragon's Mouth
A humble appearance belies a master's skill.
"Gods don't die. They merely slumber."
—Ayli, Kamsa cleric








The Krark Clan enjoys pulling them apart just to watch them reassemble one another.

"I strive for elegance and speed in my work."
—Jaya Ballard, Task Mage

"When gods become apathetic, the people will worship anyone who answers their pleas."
—Kiora

The Orzhov run a construction unit whose only business is rebuilding the wreckage left in the wake of wurms. When business is slow, they pay Golgari carnomancers to lure the wurms to the surface.





By the physical laws of the universe, darkness is merely the absence of light. Necrons can harness the power of other dimensions, where darkness is tangible and moldable.

Headlong is the only way to pass through the gate to the afterlife.


Any pleasure, when taken to excess, becomes torment. It's a formula that demons have perfected.
First the insult, then the injury.


The Temur call the flickering lights the Path of Whispers, believing that they lead the way to ancestral knowledge.
He has journeyed where none have been before. Now he returns to ensure that none follow.

Nature's secrets can be read on every tree, every branch, every leaf.
"You don't find many old werewolf hunters."
—Paulin, trapper of Somberwald
"Even your blade knows who will triumph here."
—Atraxa, Praetors' Voice
Lead, follow, or run like crazy.
"I knew I should have stayed with the boat. Always stay with the boat!"
He'd ignite the World Tree itself if he could.



Some protection requires a bit of finesse.





"We were not made for war. Like flowstone, Volrath shaped us to it."
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
The drumbeats of the horde echo in every heart.
"After four thousand years, you learn to plan for betrayal."
—Urza




Despite being abandoned for millennia, the Thran ironworks still occasionally sputter to life.
Every grave cradles a recruit.

"All who set foot in Paliano are pawns in someone's play for power."
—Marchesa, the Black Rose
For rule of the Aldering Forest, Numstail stole the acorn from Nestwind, who stole it from Brankie, who stole it from Lightroot, who stole it from Leafpaw, who stole it from Darkfur . . .
Travel the world without ever leaving the comfort of home.

"I refuse to let the folly of mortals endanger the home I made for them."

A pit yawned open, a column of oily smoke arose, and a towering form hissed, "I accept this offering."



"There's nothing like a good meal to really lift the spirit."


"We have fought this far and lost too much. We will not turn back."
—Grizzlegom
The power of a waterfall. The fury of an avalanche. The intellect of a gale-force wind.

What once soared high above Tarkir is now reduced to a seat.


"Stay."
All the wonders of the natural world in one breathtaking microcosm.


The best wishes include the will to tame their consequences.

"For years, the landfolk have emptied their refuse into the waters. It's time to return the favor."

"To probe the wonders of the multiverse, to gaze upon worlds unspoiled by blade or spell . . . it's enough to make one weep for the possibilities denied."



The Fountain had stood in the town square for centuries, but only the pigeons knew its secret.

It wasn't long before the taverns of High and Dry were full of whispers about the new captain who could turn a person to stone with a glance.
"Back to the ivory towers! This won't hold for long!"
—Vayor, Third Path cryomancer
"When all else fails, follow the geist's lantern."
—Vallon, Thraben inspector
A shoreless sea extends to every horizon, sharing its beauty only with those who can fly high enough to see it.

Uncertainty has its own allure.
Your heart's desire is found within.
—Saddlebag inscription


"I cultivated my faith in Avacyn despite meager returns. Now my faith is repaid."
An artificer once dropped one in a vault full of coins. She has yet to find it.




On Jund, even the landscape is a deadly hunter. Volcanoes, tar pits, and rock slides seem to prey upon the living.
Whenever the Llanowar Elves gather the fruits of their forest, they leave one plant of each type untouched, considering that nature's portion.

It conducts the souls of the righteous to their blessed rest and the spirits of the evil to justice.
Livonya's own nature is a matter of mystery. Nothing is known for sure, merely rumors of unearthly stealth, and unholy alliances.
Drink deep, and be restored.

"I gladly offer my weapon and my life to the glory of my sovereign."

When mortals claim there are places Thassa cannot reach, the sea god laughs.

"They had it coming."
—Squire Imalia, savior of Thiswick

"Mystery is beauty. Within the unknown we plumb revelation."
—Vannifar

"With this crown, assert your authority."
—Crown inscription




Dromoka rules her clan from the Great Aerie atop Arashin, the central city of the Shifting Wastes.




"Practice compassion and mercy. But know when they must end."
—Aurelia



"On the plus side, Throg no longer thinks he's clever."
—Xanathar

Closing time comes earlier to some than to others.



The Needle's Eye, a seldom-used passage that winds through Stensia's mountains, carries travelers close to Ashmouth—too close, some would argue.


He rides in agitated circles, snapping orders at servants who've long since found their peace.
Even a fragment of a powerstone contains within it not just energy, but space—vast dimensions trapped in fragile crystal.




"You have not died until I consent."
A golden helix streaked skyward from the Helvault. A thunderous explosion shattered the silver monolith and Avacyn emerged, free from her prison at last.
Centuries ago, one man's vengeance plunged the world into ice and darkness.
"I say victory is better than honor."

"I will secure my revenge on Zendikar one soul at a time."
—Ob Nixilis
"Light a torch and deliver this letter" were his instructions, which he unfortunately reversed.
The outskirts of Golgari territory are guarded by more than just walls.
At the mouth of the sewer pipe, you realize it's massive enough that even a giant could walk through without stooping. That gives you an idea . . .
Hunt without Nylea's leave and you may find yourself the next quarry.

There's lots of time like the present.
The snake's final thrashings only spread the fire within it.
Travelers bathe in the falls to wash away curses from the pucas who lurk nearby.
"I hear there are Bears—or spirits—that guard caravans passing through the forest."
—Gulsen, Abbey Matron
The brothers' rivalry escalated into all-out enmity, and Tocasia paid the price.




"If you'd ever met one, you wouldn't ask me to justify the extra provisions for additional security."
—Lorref, caravan master

"Being an inventor means knowing how to use the tools at hand to make something great—or to bring it down."
—Pia Nalaar


"True intentions lie not in the head but in the heart."
—Bontu, god of ambition
"If not for the wizard, we'd all be dead now. 'Course, it was him that started all this in the first place."
—Onean veteran




"There's no coming back from that."
—Jaya Ballard
"Though the afterlife, the city, and even the God-Pharaoh himself were one great deception, the ideals championed by the gods remain true."
—Djeru, former Tah-crop initiate
Each of Vivien's arrows is an invocation of a species.






One misstep in the swamp and the evil that sleeps beneath will rise to find you.
A mage willing to dedicate his life to his craft.
Can it be Lightning Bolt yet?

Witches of the Split-Eye Coven speak of a future when Grixis will overflow with life energy. For now, they must harvest vis from the living to fuel their dark magics.
"Each place we see is as ruined and lifeless as the last. So here we stay, because this ruin is *ours*."
Don't trust your secrets to the sea.



"The chill, to him who breathed it, drew / Down with his blood, till all his heart was cold."
—Alfred, Lord Tennyson, *Idyls of the King*








"Whoever obeys God and His Prophet, fears God and does his duty to Him, will surely find success."
—*The Qur'an, 24:52*

"In my early experiments in phylactery, I found that fragile forms have their uses."
—Rocati, Duke of Martyne
In matters of life and death, he trusts his gut.

"Please do not engage in debates on the nature of reality with the robot staff."
—Astrotorium sign


Kongming and Lu Su tricked Wei troops into shooting over 100,000 arrows at them to later use against the Wei at Red Cliffs.


Some owls house the souls of archmages of ages past.
What took months for human hands to carve took just seconds for the dinosaur's tail to ruin.



Each of his twenty-two braids is bound with bone and leather from a foe.


Like corpse-worms through a carapace, rotwurms slide through the hollowed bones of the undercity.
"What root and branch cannot reach, our winged friends will attend to."
—Zunak, Selesnya strategist
"I've come to save the world!"
"The wind whispers, 'come home,' but I cannot."
—Teferi



"These pirates must answer for their ancestors, who renounced the Church of Dusk and sailed from Torrezon as heretics."

Common Gruul career aspirations: berserker, shaman, catapult.

"To dwell within the Blind Eternities is unthinkable. To encounter those who do could shatter the mind."
—*Chronicle of the Titans*
"We share the same nuanced opinion of hunters and military goons: smash them."

Every facet a window into Oghma's divine insight.

"What I want, I take."
—Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran royal mage
"I got it! I got it! I—"

After millennia to craft victory, Bolas had eternity to contemplate defeat.
It has flown the sky for eons without ever touching ground.
It takes a taxidermist of unusual skill to cleanly stuff and mount a beast without severing its primal, predatory drive.
"My ears say it hisses. My fingers say it burns."
—Auntie Wort
The Fallaji quickly learned that the Kher Ridges held too many caves and valleys to be surveyed from the air alone.
They grow closer with every passing season.
"I often think on how excited they must feel to be chosen as my prey."
"Some of my kin dance for themselves, without greater purpose. Nylea gives me purpose, and with it strength."
Progress comes at a price.


"In the arms of tragedy, there is little comfort in being right."
—Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi Heretic
"Many are in high place, and of renown: but mysteries are revealed unto the meek." —Ecclesiasticus 3:19
The giant tigers of Savai prefer to hunt at daybreak, when the crystals' warning glow is masked by the light of dawn.


A devil's hands are never idle.



"What was once formed by masons, shaped by smiths, or given life by mages, I will return to the embrace of the earth."

"We have built a wall upon sand. The wall will vanish. The sand will remain."
—Oracle *en*-Vec

"Life ... is not ... a race."
On the last day of a Jukai agent's training, they are bequeathed a powerful relic blessed by the kami.

Whether it is magical, lucky, or merely old, it is cherished, and that gives it power.

Eldrazi are not the leopard's preferred prey, but they are better than no prey at all.

"My family sheltered in her light, the dark was content to wait."
—Crovax
"Everywhere you look, this world is healing from its wounds. Aren't you ready to do the same?"
—Jhoira, to Teferi

If it can't be had here, it can't be had on any world.




With one flap of her wings, the angel beat back the fires of war.



Baby dragons can't figure out humans—if they didn't want to be killed, why were they made of meat and treasure?
"When Byoog reached down to pull up a bit of root for the stew, he didn't expect the root to pull back."
—A tale of Auntie Wort


Emrakul does not grant wishes. Desires simply align to her will.

Llanowar has seven elfhames, or kingdoms, each with its own ruler. Their palaces are objects of awe, wonder, and envy.



Joining the Worldsoul took years of study and meditation. Severing that connection took the snap of Rakdos's fingers.
She remembers every word spoken, from the hero's oath to the baby's cry.



Despite its enormous stature, it can fold itself into a tunnel with startling quickness, vanishing back into the undercity.
"I think I used up all my good luck and all my bad luck in the same fall."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*
A wolf pup is always dangerous, because a wolf pup is never alone.
The land will never betray those who gave their lives for it.
"Fairest Isle, all isles excelling,/ Seat of Pleasures, and of loves . . ." —John Dryden
The best recipes start with reliable cookware.

Blessed by the lands of winter.
A word of vengeance, and her arrows awaken in flame.



When sorely wounded or tired, Urza would often retreat to the workshops of his apprentices. They were greatly amazed at how much better he looked each time he took a sip of water.
"When you are gone, will anyone remember your story?"
—Unknown
Urza was the first to understand that the war would not be lost for lack of power, but for lack of troops.
"Petrifying gaze, deadly fangs, knifelike dorsal spines, venomous saliva . . . Am I missing anything? . . . Toxic bones? Seriously?"
—Samila, Murasa Expeditionary House



"If the whole world burns, I'll never grow cold."
"They're herbivores, not prey animals. Go startle one if you want to know the difference."
@-Huatli




Reflections from the wind-sculpted snow gleam with every color of the rainbow.

Deep in Yawgmoth's realm, Urza stopped dead in his tracks and rubbed his soot-filled eyes. "Mishra?"
Dromoka's brood emerge from the dragon tempests covered with tough scales that protect them from most clan weapons and magic.
Rakdos festivals almost leave enough rubble in their wake to hide the bodies.




The thunder of its hooves beats dreams into despair.
Memories of ages past are said to swim the minds of lounging fallowsages.
Mutual consent is not required for war.
"Sir, I just thought . . . ," explained Vhati. "Don't think," interrupted Greven. "It doesn't suit you."

The sky is the dragon's throne, the seat from which it issues its fiery decrees.
"Everything here exists or perishes at my whim. Including you, Gatewatch."
—Nicol Bolas
Limited time offer. Void where prohibited. Limit one per purchase. Valid only in participating duels. This coupon is nontransferable and invalid if shattered, crumbled, detonated, pillaged, or otherwise disenchanted. Cash value less than 1/20 of a cent. Offer not valid in Quebec, Rhode Island, or where prohibited by law or the DCI.
"By the tongues of a thousand serpents, this time I do not lie."
—Ahmahz il Kin, Suq'Ata diplomat


"Don't laugh. It works."
Well, at least all of that arm-waving and arcane babbling you did was impressive.



A long way down is shorter than you think.


You're a born explorer, happiest forging your way through the untamed wilds.

The Izzet learn something from every lesson they teach.
Although the Elves of Havenwood lived in isolated villages, their swift communications allowed them to act as a single community.
The best weapon is the one at hand.

"There's no trade without trust."
—Eron, the Relentless

The mirror's shards sparkled like starfire, and a legend was reborn.
Her blades slashed across the noble's shadow. He scoffed, then fell over dead.

Nowhere on Ikoria are monsters more integral to the landscape than Ketria, where the river itself will stand up and roar.

Where renown and solitude converge.

They study the deeds of their traitorous ancestors, hoping the stories may reveal a way back to the physical world.

Those who enter the copse never leave. They find peace there and take root, becoming part of the ever-growing grove.
The sea of fear has endless depths.
From the highest tiers of Dawn's Light Palace to the deepest shade of Wren's Run, the silver notes of the horn shimmer through the air, and all who hear it feel its pull.
As Ulamog's brood reduces the earth to dust, geopedes burst from their tunnels in search of solid ground.
"And through the drifts the snowy cliffs/ Did send a dismal sheen:/ Nor shapes of men nor beasts we ken—/ The ice was all between."/ —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
"Looks like we're completely outnumbered."
"Lucky for us. I thought we'd be bored."
"Try to steal from me and I'll add your skull to my collection."

The difference between a nuisance and a threat is often merely a matter of numbers.
"We can go into the dark hand-in-hand or alone. I know which I prefer."
Experiments intended to create the perfect holiday emissary resulted in a substance harder than darksteel and a fraction as merry.
A blazing sun that never sets.
"I have seen countless petty warmongers gaze on it for a time before turning away."
—Sarlena, paladin of the Northern Verge
"If there isn't enough of Jamuraa left to stand on, I will still claim it for Keld."
—Latulla, Keldon overseer
"What is this that is neither future nor past?"

"First it was plovers and mulldrifters. Now it's knitting needles the size of javelins."
—Calydd, kithkin farmer
"They shall kill those whom once they loved."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer

"I will not live as a slave. If you would be free, then fight alongside me."


"How strong is he? Well, I once lost control of the plow, and he carved a furrow right through my house! Didn't even slow down."
—Guldir, Beskir farmer
Liliana's voice carries far, reaching beyond the cold pall of death.

"Don't laugh. It works."
—Yavimaya ranger

Keld faced an apocalypse to fulfill a dire prophecy. Now Keldons have nothing left to believe in except themselves.

It takes great sacrifice to make it to the top.


"The Cloud Nacatl sit and think, a bunch of soft paws. We are the Claws of Marisi, stalking, pouncing, drawing blood."

"Pathetic. Let me show you how it's done."

"The higher the mind soars, the greater its understanding of the law."
—Isperia


"This heresy cannot stand!"
"Those dragons grow fast. For a while they feed on squirrels and goblins and then suddenly you're missing a mammoth."
—Hurdek, Mazar mammoth trainer

Stinking of rot, it leaps between gravestones in search of its next meal.
"My enemies' death yields threefold benefit: removal, reuse, and research."
—Volrath




After years of being bullied, Fergo reaped the benefits of his newfound strength: he never met a man he didn't want to fight.

A shuffling sound and the smell of ozone follow the slogger as surely as its electric tail.

The gods of Chaos bestow gifts of mutations upon their champions. Too many of these gifts transform their bearer its mindless, writhing chaos spawn.
"I do things in my own time."
—Etha, initiate of Rhet crop
Many travelers have wandered into a fog only to find that it had teeth, claws, and an appetite.
"Target eradicated. That which burns shall never be blessed."
—Fusilave unit Tor-213
"Stray not into the path of darkness, or be lost forever."
—Baki, Wizard Attendant
"I'm never unarmed."
Golgari reclaimers resent the gorgons, begrudging the loss of so many fine nutrients locked away in stone.
"You studied hard. How delicious!"

Bones scattered around us joined to form misshapen bodies. We struck at them repeatedly—they fell, but soon formed again, with the same mocking look on their faceless skulls.
Tracking it isn't the hard part.
"Crispy! Scarback! Load another volcano-ball."
—Stumphobbler Thuj, orcish captain
It takes many arms to arm an army.
"I find its symmetry pleasing. It rids our world of offensive refuse while disposing of itself."
—Dolomarus, Proctor of the Clean
It shambled from the cloud of ash and bone dust, undeterred by its own extinction.
Most mirrors show your reflection. Others show your potential.
Silumgar trains those whom he favors in his magic, granting them the ability to spread his disdain across the land.

"What fire forged, fire remembers."

"If you make me spill my drink, you're buying me a new one."


"There's a new ballad waiting to be born around every corner."
"I fear no army or beast, but only the morning fog. Our assault can survive everything else."
—Lord Hilneth
It glides on silent wings across the midnight sky, and a dread host rises to follow.


Once an angel, now an abomination.
"I don't care if it's covered in rust, blood, or enemy insignias. If it'll stop an arrow, I'll take it."




Any meeting between guilds requires proper equipment.

For wisdom's sake, it was built high to gaze on all things. For glory's sake, it was built high as a testament of power. For strength's sake, it was built high to repel all attacks.
"I offered to pay him to do the job, but he refused. So I took matters into my own hands."
—Tahim, the Puppetmaster



"Why do you weep for the dead? I rejoice, for they have died for me."

The Ogre philosopher Gnerdel believed the purpose of life was to live as high on the food chain as possible. She refused to eat vegetarians, and preferred to live entirely on creatures that preyed on sentient beings.


The island nation of Jhess is under constant siege from Valeron on the mainland. Riders traverse the coastline, always on the lookout for sails or aven.

"Graarg!"



"Your porous flesh betrays you."
—Fire Eye, viashino bey
"The Kolaghan send them at us. We kill and raise them. They fight the next wave the Kolaghan send. It's a neat little cycle."
—Asmala, Silumgar sorcerer
"Peace hath her victories / No less renownd than war."
—John Milton, "To the Lord General Cromwell"


"The pass was completely blocked by the avalanche; we're forced to turn back. Nevertheless, we've gone farther and seen more than any before us."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry





"Such rage," thought Vhati, gazing up at the thunderhead from the *Predator*. "It is Greven's mind manifest."
"We are the shield that never breaks, the bough that never burns, the song that can never be silenced."
It cares more about preserving the herd's territory than about preserving itself.
"The least of gods shall tower over the mightiest of mortals, and death shall reign over all."
—Crypt of Agadeem inscription

The continent of Ondu is a vast plateau crisscrossed by deep trenches and meandering rivers.

Ask a Keldon to hold his temper and you'll be left holding your guts.
Before a woman marries in the village of Sursi, she must visit the land of the Mesa Pegasus. Legend has it that if the woman is pure of heart and her love is true, a Mesa Pegasus will appear, blessing her family with long life and good fortune.
Earth arms itself with fire.

Prized by wizards as a mobile scrying pool, it bears visions drawn from the depths of the sea.
A prayer answered by Keranos is clear for all to witness.


"Fire set free is a fearsome force—destructive, merciless, always hungry. Given direction, it is much worse."
—Jeflin, Vastwood shaman
Left to itself, nature overflows any container, overthrows any restriction, and overreaches any boundary.


2018 Europe Vintage Champion

Save a kill spell to deal with this guy.

The mind is a vessel that may be emptied like any other.

"We must save you from yourselves."

The undisputed master of the mountains of Shiv.
If you're looking for it, it's available. The question is how much you're willing to pay.


"The end justifies the means. What do I care if I rule over the dead rather than over the living? The dead ask fewer questions."
—Kaervek
"Until this expedition is done, that blade is your guardian, your liberator, and your best friend all rolled into one."
—Yon Basrel, Oran-Rief survivalist




The elves long ago mastered the art of hunting with nets. They call it "fishing the sky."
"The one who dies with the most toys is still dead."
—Geth, keeper of the Vault







"Unwelcome thoughts crowd my mind. Are they my own madness, or the whispers of another?"
—Sarkhan Vol






Темный дар Чейнера еще более темной душе.

Compared to the fire of the forge, the strength of steel is nothing.

"Fuses? We have more than enough! Now … which one was it?"
—Flearan One-Eye, goblin engineer










The Champion reached for a stone, and Heliod placed the sun into her hand.
—*The Theriad*

Beneath the gaze of angels, only the righteous may stand without fear.
One pounce, she's hungry—you die quickly. Two, she's teaching her cubs—you're in for a long day.
"There is much to learn here, but few can endure the ringing of the spires."
—Nulakam the Archivist
Life is such a fragile thing.
Serra's blessing lies strongest upon Sursi, where her holy chapels are untouched even as the Cabal encroaches.
Initiates need worry only about the trials. Everything else is in the hands of the gods.
Time rifts bring tunneling beasts of old into the hard, dry earth of the present. Most die there, trapped, but the mightiest burst through the surface.
"Give up these unnatural weapons, these scrolls. Heart and mind and fist are enough."
—Zyd, Kamahlite druid
She stretches the laws of physics until they snap.

Bathed in deep crimson, the land that once gave comfort and shelter now yielded nothing but hostility.
Mage-students obsessed with the secrets of the past choose Lorehold, the college of archaeomancy.

Turg's spawn ruled long after he croaked.

The defenders watched in terror as the flying V split apart into a bristling battle formation.
"I am my life's work."
During the collision of the shards, entire ways of life disappeared without a trace.


"When one of us prospers, the pride prospers."
—Jazal Goldmane
"A master of hieromancy can see the advantage in any scenario."
—Warden Hixus, to Kytheon

There is no glory to be gained in the kingdom of the dead.
—Vec tomb inscription
"Somehow it warps the Æther. It brings a strange weight, a blockade in the flow of spellcraft."
—Noyan Dar, Tazeem lullmage
The Voldaren lands remained well protected when Olivia's army marched from Lurenbraum Fortress.
All those who trade in questions must answer to the Dimir.

"Ah, a faceshredder. Very rare. Nearly unstoppable. Good luck!"
—Cabal instructor

Llanowar covers a million square miles, yet nobody enters the forest without the elves knowing it.

It glints with arcane truths to those who know how to glimpse them.
Ordinary moths follow it, drawn to its light.
Its shriek is unintelligible, but armored bulkheads seem to understand the intent well enough.




A dragon's scale can be carved into a mighty shield, provided you can procure a dragontooth to cut it.
Selesnya grows its ranks in more ways than one.
After the Travails, Runechanters set about repairing twisted symbols of Avacyn as the first step in restoring faith in the Church.

"Aim higher next time."
When harpies demand a toll to cross through their territory, consider yourself lucky if they permit payment in coin.

"If I'm going, I'm taking you with me!"
Its wings disturb more than air.
Dragon birth lairs are littered with treasure to entice the young from their eggs.

Its collection is vast, yet each ship has a special place in its heart.
"Horse? Who needs a horse?"
"Four parts molten bronze, yes . . . one part frozen mercury, yes, yes . . . but then what?"
Hate gets you only so far. A pointy stick can close the rest of the distance.

Where the holy light of the angels has shone, only purity remains.



All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.

"Aether is the soul of Kaladesh, and all souls should be free."



The ingenuity of goblins, the depravity of demons, and the smarts of sheep.



A ghoulcaller's playground.
No one is as dedicated to perfection as a stitcher working on their latest masterpiece.
Its wings disturb more than air.

The only thing that smells worse than troll is burnt troll.

"Once, vampires ruled this world, commanding the fear and respect that befit our noble blood. Have we truly sunk so low?"
—Sorin Markov
Both forge and pyre.



No tactic transforms a battle like a well-timed carnivore.
From here, the path to anywhere may be found.

"The Golgari expand, yes, but I refuse to call their tainted creations 'growth.'"
—Niszka, Selesnya evangel

"My bowstring hums in tune with the song of the Worldsoul."
—Alcarus, Selesnya sagittar

During the collision of the shards, entire ways of life disappeared without a trace.
"The entire murder scene was covered in dripping, oozing slime. No need for a soothsayer to solve that one."
—Pel Javya, Wojek investigator
Bred as living shields, these slivers have proven unruly—they know they cannot be caught.
He wastes his amazing talents on proving how amazing he really is.

The upside to not thinking about the consequences is that you'll always surprise those who do.

"No one is born worthy."

Goblins' eager curiosity leads them to scavenging, petty theft, and the rigging of sleek pirate ships. Some stop at scavenging.
It reacted to Naya's overabundant food supply by growing additional mouths.
Soaring over Vitu-Ghazi, New Prahv, and Orzhova, the Conclave's trained falcons provided critical intelligence.


"Beware Adamaro! In him all pain and anger is perfected."
—Isao, Enlightened Bushi
"If people are always on the edge of their seats, we can save money on chair backs."
—Myra the Magnificent

The chains obey her. Everything else would do best to get out of her way.
He ensures not only whether but also when and where the lightning strikes twice.
Guarding the ship is the Thornwinds' first concern. Getting along with the locals ranks fourth or fifth at best.

"The ancient places of Ravnica awaken, stirred by the hoofbeats of Ilharg!"
—Nikya of the Old Ways




"You say this Tenth District, not Rubblebelt. But where smash happen, that Rubblebelt. Rubblebelt state of mind."
—Urgdar, cyclops philosopher
It emerged from the coldest depths of Lochmere only to face the fires of Irencrag.

"Loyalty guides me. Pride compels me. Anger sustains me. And the pay isn't bad."



"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim."
—Sisay, captain of the *Weatherlight*
The myr are like quicksilver: malleable in function and adaptable in form.

"How do you kill what's already dead? *That's* how."

"Don't get too comfortable in there."
—Liliana Vess

Gerrard was the Mercadian soldiers' greatest hero; they followed him blindly. When he left, they stumbled around blindly.
"Be careful. You'll have more than Dovin to contend with if you hope to breach New Prahv."
—Lavinia, to Chandra Nalaar
"Be glad the griffin set you back on your feet when it was done with you. My goat wasn't so lucky."
—Arram, goatherd



Nature grows solutions to its problems.
Nine fires, a hull breach, and a Quafloovian meganibbler escaped from the petting zoo. Things were suspiciously quiet.
The province of Jingzhou was the fulcrum of the three kingdoms. At separate times it was coveted and controlled by the Wu, the Shu, and the Wei.



"Terror corrupts order and paralyzes instinct."
—*Volume III, The Book of Decay*

Its diet consists of the rare everyberry, which tastes different every time. It loves the surprise!
"My angel is the flint, and I am her steel."
"The answers are here. This is the way through the trial."
Mirrodin's creator still lives, still shapes metal, and still commands world-shaking power.

The glow from within looks inviting, but woe awaits whomever finds out who stokes the fire or what simmers in the pot.

"We entered the church in search of solace, but it became clear we wouldn't find it there."
—Grete, Order of Saint Traft

An eye closes. A race awakens.
Ships blown north in their voyage across the Stormwreck Sea become trapped in the unmelting ice.
"Did Purphoros bless Maikal because of his rage? Or did Maikal's rage blossom after he'd been blessed? Only the gods know."
—Eocles, oracle of Purphoros






Goblins prize its hide for building rock sled runners.
"Dear Magic R&D, . . ."
Trained in the arts of stealth, royal assassins choose their victims carefully, relying on timing and precision rather than brute force.
"For what are leaves but countless blades To fight a countless foe on high."
—Skyshroud hymn
"No rest. No mercy. No matter what."
—Memorial inscription
"I have yet to find my equal."
Minotaurs favor magic that manifests as weapons wrapped in flame.

"The Lemures looked harmless, until they descended on my troops. Within moments, only bones remained."
—Lucilde Fiksdotter, Leader of the Order of the White Shield
A single battle affects countless others.

A bit of pain never hurts.



Some dogs just aren't meant to be indoor pets.





Everybody knows that to ward off trouble, you knock on wood. But usually it's better to make a wall out of the wood and let trouble do the knocking.
It is an expert at culling individuals who stray too far from the herd.

The knights see a mighty quarry. The dragon sees breakfast, lunch, and dinner.


Izzet mages often acquire their magic reagents from dubious sources, so the potency of their spells is never predictable.
"They started it."
"Let him be an example to others who would default on their debts to us."
—"The Cozen," Orzhov assassin


It reflects only nightmares.
When defeat is near and guidance is scarce, all eyes look in one direction.

It is the forest beyond the horizon, the mountain waiting to be climbed, the new land across the endless sea.

"For something is amiss or out of place When mice with wings can wear a human face."
—Theodore Roethke, "The Bat"
"Mere death brings no pleasure. Pleasure comes from watching fools scratch and claw to save their wretched lives from the inevitable."
—Ob Nixilis

"This item is not from . . . now. It reflects a sky no longer ours and gleams with hope that does not exist."
—Tavalus, acolyte of Korlis
Azorius lawmages would like to outlaw the creation of weirds, but first they'd have to settle their long-standing debate on how to classify them.




"You know it to be false, but when its claws find you, what you know won't matter much at all."
—Pol Jamaar, illusionist

All creatures have an inner fire. Releasing it can be dangerous.
They'd guarded the Henge so long that they were as attuned to the powerstones as they were to the trees.
In times of madness, people cling to the familiar, monstrous though it may be.

"What is it? Um . . . what do you *want* it to be?"
—Juzba, Izzet tinker
When it awoke, the mirrors of the world reflected only darkness.




First you lose your enemy's trail. Then you lose all sense of direction. Then you hear the growls . . .







Syr Damon looked at the dragon and saw the faces of every innocent it had devoured. Suddenly, his sword blazed like the sun.

「こうして、空槌のブルクはその燃える一瞬で称号と勝利の両方を手にした。」
—-戦呪文撮要

"Hunters feed on the fear of their prey."
—Garruk Wildspeaker

"I call upon both predators and protectors, for now is a season of war."
"The sacred might of Thune thunders in my soul."

"I will not rest until the stench of eyeblights is eradicated from these woods."

The magus still hears the roar of the crowds. They're gone, but the will to compete remains.
Serra's blessing lies strongest upon Sursi, where her holy chapels are untouched even as the Cabal encroaches.
"And what did Erekastos teach us is the nature of the soul?"
"This was quite possibly the least pleasant occurrence on the entire expedition."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry
A Planeswalker's chronicle spans worlds and civilizations, each page a lifetime.

"We have confiscated your spells as evidence. Once we conclude our investigation, you may petition to have them returned."
When art projects collapse, Prismari students revel in the beauty of destruction. Everyone else runs for cover.

Those who dare stand in its path are either brave or mindless. Or in the case of goblins, both.





"Remember when it was the most terrifying thing you'd ever seen?"
—Captain Lannery Storm

Greenweaver Mina and her twin brother Denn lead the last of the Mul Daya into an uncertain future.
The stones hark back to an age before civilization, when the living earth blessed all who trod its untamed wilds.


The desert is a voracious beast, devouring both flesh and stone.

After the awakening of the Eldrazi, some vampires took it upon themselves to remind the others where their loyalty should lie.
"Death is a small price to pay for immortality."
—Baron Sengir
"So everyone gets what they truly deserve, I will keep watch."
"We shun them not for their dream but for their refusal to let such a noble dream die a noble death."
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
"The tower isn't the structure itself. It is all of us, and the wisdom we share. It grows ever upward, a stone for every new arrival."
—Archmage Vintra



"We are many, yet one. We are separate in body, yet speak with a single voice. Join us in our chorus."




"Get out of my way."

Viscerid dams may be of living creatures as well as bones and mud.




Zombies mourn for the living and celebrate those who will soon be given the gift of death.


Those who raged most bitterly at the world in life are cursed to roam the nether realms in death.


"Twice I have let the Legacy slip away. Never again."
—Karn, silver golem

"May this grant you all the strength of the behemoths and none of their serenity."
—Ajani






"Every creature in the glade paused and stared. Overcome, I bowed to the beast."
—Endril, Kalonian naturalist

In their final moments, the demons gazed upon grace in its purest form.





The only shortcut in a bog is to the bottom.


"Of all the things that can be stolen, opportunity is the most valuable."
Guarded by cartographers, disdained by warlords, coveted by adventurers.



"If that thief Joven ever shows his head around here again, make sure he leaves without it."
—Eron the Relentless
Rishada is the gateway to free trade—but the key will cost you.
"Put a spear in a peasant's hands, and you have an expendable troop. Put a purpose in his heart, and you win a warrior."
—Sensei Golden-Tail
"I'd rather take on a neckbiter or moonhowler any day. Oh well, looks like I'm going to end up parrying with empty air half the night."
—Saint Trogen, the Slayer
Her leadership forged the *Weatherlight*'s finest crew.

"The timeless, tireless jaws of nature shall one day devour us all."
—Sildark, artificer of Omu
"The fools have done it."
—Tishana
"We each have a weight to carry on the road to the afterlife."
—Oketra, god of solidarity

His victims don't have time to feel despair.

"By this glyph I affirm your role."
—Urza, to Karn



"At summer's end, the pegasus herd stampedes across the sky. Their silent footfalls taunt the clouds and bid the rains to come."
—Stormfront fable
"We consider rust a curable disease."
—Tarrin, Hammer-Tribe shaman
"Cure that which was never ill."
—Spellbomb inscription
"Trust in the power of stone. Stone is strong; stone shatters swords; stone breaks bones. Trust in stone."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
Not all silences are easily broken.


"Ojutai's rule has allowed Tarkir's monks to learn from the truly enlightened."
—Sarkhan Vol






"Wait, it'll come to me in a minute."



A screech in the night is all it takes for Orzhov debtors to clutch at their coin purses.

In their hunger for the arch's power, mages often forget that it only makes dragons easier to summon. It doesn't make them easier to control.
Bone, stone . . . both taste the same to a hungry basilisk.
"They certainly are well protected. Too bad for them they're not well balanced."
—Sisay
"What will it say on our graves, Lord Konda? Will it say we led our world to conquer immortal forces or that we were crushed by our own arrogance? At each defeat, I wonder."
—Sensei Hisoka, letter to Lord Konda





Following the sun's cycle, harvest season comes once a year—unless the druids bid the sun behave otherwise.

"My heart is not mine, it is Belzenlok's. All hearts are his, and all blood."
—"Rite of Belzenlok"

Nissa found that the vines of the marsh could ensnare just as well as forest vines could—maybe even better.
"Fire is the universal language."
—Jhoira, master artificer




When it passes, order defeats chaos.



"Let my lance sing with the voices of angels and the heathen cower before my shield, for I will teach this land the meaning of honor."



Rakshasa offer deals that sound advantageous to those who forget who they are dealing with.
Despite their noble heritage, the pirates of the Deadeye Fleet are known for underhanded tactics and despicable trickery.
Weather on Zendikar is unpredictable—unless you're the one telling it what to do.
"All hail the Demonlord Belzenlok, Evincar of the Stronghold, Scion of Darkness, Doom of Fools, Lord of the Wastes, Master of the Ebon Hand, Eternal Patriarch of the Cabal . . ."
These stealthy felines have survived so many battles that some believe they must possess many lives.

"A good tarpan will serve you, faithful and true. A bad one will kick you in the head."
—General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox


"I see countless worlds. What makes them think I can't find them in just one?"
—Ral Zarek



The spirits of Argoth grant new life to those who repent the folly of enslaving their labors to devices.
"Forgive me, Master Kami, but in the interest of my people I must halt your advance."

"For us, a rope represents the ties that bind the kor. For you, it's more literal."


Nothing says trouble like a reedy hiss with a hint of liquid gurgle.

"Eenie, meenie, minie, moe . . . oh, why not all of them?"
—Jaya Ballard, task mage

A symbol of ferocity in oppressive times.




He climbs a staircase of falling souls, fighting the continuous pull of the void.
Once the Society of Mishra took control, the Tolarian Academy at Lat-Nam became a haven for dark research.

In the ruins of Kroog, only anguish thrived.

What the vigor of life builds up, agony tears down again.

"See the beauty in death: the clean white bones lying in the fertile soil and the brightly colored moonglove sprouting from the fell earth."
"The patterns of crossing ripples reveal the future to those who know how to read them."

A monument to long-forgotten gods, it stands as a tribute to the fleeting nature of human ways.
"If he's so willing to suffer for his cause, then by all means, let us oblige him."
—Cabal Patriarch

Only twenty years after the Sima clan united the empire, invading barbarians divided it again.
"The shamans? Ha! They are craven cows not capable of true magic."
—Irini Sengir
A cyclops has two moods: angry and asleep.




For a price, the floating city of High and Dry offers all the amenities a pirate could want: rest, recreation, and revenge.
Seekers spend their lives protecting a home they rarely visit.

Countless streams flow into the nine rivers, and the nine rivers flow into the Great River. The River Heralds guard them all.

When defeat is near and guidance is scarce, all eyes look in one direction.

"Its darkened sap penetrates natural fibers and spreads its own genes. Emulation experiments are underway."
—Simic research notes

One who is marked by a demon in life is sure to be remembered as one in death.
Tired of always being picked last, the wizard Zzzyxas created the ultimate revenge.


The enthusiasm of the young, sharpened by the discipline of a soldier.
To the Sun Empire, any place where daylight brightens the jungle floor is sacred ground.
The Boros legionnaire saw a noble sacrifice, the Rakdos thug a blazing suicide, and the Izzet alchemist an experiment gone awry.

Giving little thought to their own defense, they carried the flag that united their army.
Gix despised the sylvan morass. The gouge that the portal had torn in the forest was the only pleasing sight.
"The amber sun smokes with fury, gazing on foes that gather like ants invading our home. We are ready! Blade and claw strike as one."
—Huatli
"Truth is hard enough to see, let alone understand. We must remove all distractions to find clarity."
—Zogye, wandering sage
"Forward! Until the horizon is ours!"
—Khemses, charioteer

Partisan spies warned that no armor would protect the body from Phyrexian infection. Neurok strategists took that as a challenge.



"Truth shines even in darkness. Those who march on the side of truth walk always in righteous light."


"The specimen seems to be broken."



The folk of Kessig build up their courage by burning effigies of the things they fear.

The pattern of the Implicit Maze extends in more than two dimensions.

He only paused to catch his breath, not knowing that it would be his last.
Tritons search for omens in its wake.
Dinner and politics don't mix.

"Our fight is not about territory or revenge. It is about freedom, plain and simple."
—Ruric Thar, Ghor-Clan chieftain
The first explorers found Argoth a storehouse of natural wealth—towering forests grown over rich veins of ore.

"When the beast cloaks itself in the mighty oak, what good is a bow? When the oak wraps itself around the snarling beast, what good is a hatchet?"
—Dionus, elvish archdruid


Street folk call them "spire mice," but behind the mockery is an unspoken envy of the ledgewalkers' skill at avoiding harm.

"The specimen seems to be broken."
As patient and generous as life, as harsh and merciless as nature.

Sometimes those with the most sin cast the first stones.



"The power of flight has but one equal in battle: surprise. Understanding how to use both is the key to victory."
—Arnjlot Olasson, Sky Mage


"As long as there is a single shred of life, there is hope."
—Nissa Revane



Options will cost you, but a lack of them will cost you even more.
"Gambling with mages never is."
—Remin, venerable monk
Knowing Takenuma Swamp to be dangerous, Hisata set wards to warn him of predators. He never imagined that his murderer would pass through them unhindered.



The militia formed up in the central plaza awaiting the onslaught, but the giants never quite made it.
When tempers run high, it's easy to lose your head.

Nature's way of saying "take the long way home."
A drop now is all he needs to find you later.
"Our enemies will soon discover that we are not as meek as they had believed."
Get carried away.
". . . [T]he ghost rides forth to the scene of battle in nightly quest of his head . . . he sometimes passes along the Hollow, like a midnight blast . . ."
—Washington Irving, The Legend of Sleepy Hollow

"The walls of Argive were built by a peaceful dynastic union that has guarded us against war for fifteen centuries. The lesson is clear."


"The land grows only where the kami will it."
—Dosan the Falling Leaf
"If you do it right, they'll never know what hit them."
—General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox




"There is no future save the one my master wills."

"I killed him because I had to," Starke lied to Gerrard. "But now I pledge my loyalty to you."
The towers and catwalks of the Voldaren fortress are lit by the lanterns of geists endlessly seeking a way out.


Gaea needs no book to record every act.


Naya teems with gargantuans, titanic monsters to whom both nature and civilization defer.
The magic of the elves leaves its mark on the forest. The magic of the forest leaves its mark on the animals who live there. The animals of the forest leave their mark on all who trespass.


Its elaborate designs reveal secrets of aether's flow.







No berzerker charge can stand against the psychic might of the Hive Mind.
A kithkin's worst enemy is solitude.
Phenax is generous with gifts and unforgiving of debts.
"A herd is only as strong as its weakest. Our weakest just killed his third minotaur raider—today."
—Braulios of Pheres Band

"The wise learn from successes as well as mistakes."
"Make people wait for what they want, and you have power over them. This is as true for merchants and militia as it is for cooks and couples."
—Gwendlyn Di Corci
In times when freedom seems lost, great souls arise to reclaim it.
The mind is a beautiful bounty encased in an annoying bone container.







Markov vampires cultivate an image of such decadent elegance that it can be easy to forget they can field a deadly fighting force.

"Let them see what is not there and feel what does not touch them. When they no longer trust their senses, that is the time to strike."
—Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen

"Aye, the foul beast chomped me, but I got away. You'd best believe when I find it again, it won't get away so easy."
To dodge the unerring knife, one must be free of thought.
The touch of death is never gentle.
In dark times, Truth bears a blade.
Eating is all it knows.


She remembers every word spoken, from the hero's oath to the baby's cry.
"Those who have never ridden before the wind do not know the true joy of war."

Not once in the history of Grixis has anyone died of old age.






You were born at sea, and your legs are steadiest when the waves are rowdiest.
No human eyes have ever witnessed the birth of an apex monster.


No one knows whether they were named for the disease they carry or for the speed at which they multiply.
Foul-tempered, poorly trained, and mule-stubborn, the drake is the perfect test of the master's will.
Crovax sensed that Mirri wasn't ready for the curse taking hold of her. Weeping in his heart, he fled.
The heart of a golem gives life to more than just the iron husk around it.
"Still the mind and quiet the heart. Only then will you hear the Multiverse's great truths."
—Narset

"The need for the pack is bred in their bones. Their true strength will not show itself for any other purpose."
—Garruk Wildspeaker
"Today is hydromancy? I thought it was amplimancy! I studied for amplimancy!"





As he gritted his teeth to focus through the pain, Tahngarth glanced at Takara. She seemed completely unaffected.


"Immortality is not quite the same as invulnerability, but it is close enough."
"If bats are the only thing between me and a mountain of Orzhov coins, then I'm about to be a very rich thief."

Everyone knows that violence at the Festival brings the worst of luck, so for at least one day a year arms are laid down in favor of brimming goblets.
The voices of the dead ring in the heart long after they have faded from the ears.

than that. Even bigger. Keep going. More.
dreadnoughts for jewelry. It was *big*!"
—Arna Kennerüd, skyknight
"We must rely on our own knowledge, not on the dogma of the seekers or the mutterings of the sphinxes."
—Tullus of Palandius
"They claim that dog is man's best friend. But according to my calculations, it's actually this guy!"
"These alleys are not safe. Come, I can guide you back to the market square."
"The clouds came alive and dove to the earth! Hooves flashed among the dark army, who fled before the spectacle of fury."
—*Song of All*, canto 211


"Don't worry, sweet brother. Help is on the way."
—Ghoulcaller Gisa


What burns the land, boils the seas.

Three heads are better than one.
The baloth's instincts boiled, its muscles pulled taut, and its razor-spines bristled, as it turned to face—a runt meepling.


Inside even the humblest goblin lurks the potential for far greater things—and far worse.

From the time they are hatchlings, river drakes are taught to pull the largest prey from the Luxa.

Some bad dreams stay with you forever.

"Llanowar remembers the Ice Age, the Phyrexian Invasion, and the Rift Era. So long as we draw breath, we will ensure such disasters never threaten our world again."
"The hum of the universe is never off-key."
—Mystic elder
Crippling fear precedes it. A foul stench accompanies it. Death follows in its wake.



Renounce all limits,
False chains binding potential.
Power knows no bounds.

2018 Europe Legacy Champion





"If you've been at this as long as I have, nothing can surprise you. That's the hope, at least."
"What do you have that I cannot obtain?"
—Mairsil, the Pretender
Nothing tastes finer to an ooze than a priceless family heirloom.

"For every one that falls, ten shall rise. The revelation of New Phyrexia is at hand."
—Vorinclex, Voice of Hunger

"If the acrobatic show doesn't wow the audience, we have no one to blame but our elves."
—Myra the Magnificent
When Tasigur sent his ambassadors to the Abzan outpost, the true envoys were not the naga but the infectious rats they carried with them.


"After Auntie brushed the soot from her eyes, she discovered something wonderful: the fire had turned the goat into something that smelled delicious."
—A tale of Auntie Grub
"Let go of your memories and be reborn."
—Argent Etchings, plate 106, passage 27

Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti Djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.
The traditional kings of the jungle command a healthy respect in other climates as well. Relying mainly on their stealth and speed, Savannah Lions can take a victim by surprise, even in the endless flat plains of their homeland.


"The union of sea and sky makes a perfect cover."
—Talrand, sky summoner




"A trail of scrap metal can lead it into an ambush. But take care not to overfeed it."
—Adaran, Tangle hunter
Lu Su served as an intermediary between the Wu and Shu kingdoms until Zhou Yu's death in 210, when he became Wu's supreme commander.


"May the Ancestor strengthen my hand and guide my blade."
—Nomad war prayer




An assassin is a king's most trusted courier, ensuring his messages are heard by even the most unwilling recipients.

"The continual rise of the downtrodden is as inevitable as vines usurping a forest."
@-Vraska







"That which would be a fatal mutation in any other species is merely a source of new powers. I am intrigued, yet too fearful to examine it more closely."
—Rukarumel, field journal

Those who are chosen do not doubt. Those who remain do not lament.

He has spent years training his eyes and ears to detect the subtle signs of a dragon's approach.
Jolrael tends the land so that the land will tend the beasts.

"Don't try to hit your enemies. Concentrate on the space between them, and fill the air with doom."
—Spear-Tribe teaching

"Political violence is a perfectly legitimate answer to the persecution handed down by dignitaries of the state."

Some see the world as a place of infinite wonder and knowledge. Some see it as an infinite dinner plate.

Wanted: Thick-skinned goblin for guarding mean ol' Kookus. Must like fires. Must heal quickly.
It kills with unfeeling malice.
Nicol Bolas would not rest until he was restored to his former glory.
Centuries before the first branches of the Tangle gave shelter from the suns' cold light, the shadows of golems were Mirrodin's only shade.
"The past is a ghost that haunts you from the moment it exists until the moment you don't."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*
"Some trade in goods, some in secrets. My soul has walked the futures, and I offer the rare coin of possibility."

Imps aren't born knowing how to fly—just how to annoy.


The Capashen built the highest towers in Benalia to afford themselves the best view.
A few aetherborn have discovered a way to sustain their own existences at the cost of an insatiable hunger for the life essence of other beings.




To scrape out a living in Aphetto, wizards are reduced to selling rumors, lies, forgeries, or—if they get desperate enough—the truth.
"Just let him loose and follow the charge."
—Yikaro, Atarka warrior


The Gruul holiday of Rauck-Chauv always ends the same way.
It breaches not physical distances but temporal ones.


"You're trespassing in my reality. Ask permission next time."
—Simun the Quiet

". . . pirates gambled with a djinn and lost the thing more dear than gold."
—"Love Song of Night and Day"
"When traveling the Great Desert avoid wearing the scales of lizards, for the Viashino rule the sands and look poorly on the skinning of their cousins."
—Zhalfirin Guide to the Desert

Elvish weavers use spidersilk to make everything from tapestries to rappelling ropes.

The temptation to take the ox's golden hide is as irresistible as it is fatal.
It is said that one must modestly refuse a gift three times before accepting it to show humility before the kami.


"Counterbalanced forces sustain this city. No faction above others. A beautiful idea."
—Emmara



Sapphire drakes can communicate over great distances, their calls resonating in the gems fixed in their skulls.
"Unless you like the idea of becoming some goblin's lunch, get up and move!"
"Take the sharp metal stick and make a lotta holes."
—Jula, goblin raider
"What rises without legs, whispers without a voice, bites without teeth, and dies without having life?"


The power of a waterfall. The fury of an avalanche. The intellect of a gale-force wind.
Recent research suggests these creatures were invented by Urza's and Mishra's original master, Tocasia, and that both brothers used them.



"Welcome to perfection."
—Sheoldred, Whispering One

When the winds blow out of the abyss, death is the only harvest.

"In my years wandering this land I've seen a veritable menagerie of fantastic creatures, but one that has eluded me thus far is the fabled 'easygoing minotaur.'"
—Ko, expedition wizard

Not all Keld's warriors are found on the battlefield.
"Turn your back for a second and they just vanish! As if they weren't shifty enough before."
—Rhirhok, goblin archer
"Perhaps I should take Mirrodin apart and begin again."
—Memnarch



"We must all push through the pain to heal our world."
—Ayli, Kamsa cleric

It leaps from tree to tree, revealing the enemy's positions.

Seeking the company of plants ensures that your wits will go to seed.
The Futurists eagerly supplement their research with their rivals' closely guarded secrets.

Disaster stalks with gaping jaws across unready lands.



After lightning struck the cliffs, the ore became iron, the iron became steel, and the steel became greaves. The lightning never left.

"I wouldn't advise using it with a Woolly Mammoth, but it's quite appropriate for many other beasts."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"Preying on unsuspecting goobers, this crocodile is the only foe to ever best me in a knife fight."
—Crocodile Jackson, legendary cowboy

Nobody thought twice about checking their weapons at the door, until they were informed there was no weapon check at the door.


He's the calm that hides the coming storm.
"Breaking it would be about four hundred years bad luck."
—Nomad sentry
"Realms emerge and wither like autumn leaves, but the World Tree endures eternally."
—Esika, god of the Tree
"A place like this makes me wonder if there's more to life than blood and treasure . . . Nah."
—Boyl Bucksalt, Storm Fleet swab
"The truth will outshine all lies."

Scarecrows only go so far in sending the message to stay away.

The more metal it digests, the more its jelly will fetch on the alchemists' market.


"The archon fell like a star from the sky, meeting the rising sun at the horizon's edge."
—*The Cosmogony*

It draws its strength from those around it, but the pleasure of destruction is all its own.

Covered with hard shell-like plates, these slivers burrow through solid rock to carve out new nests for their hives.



"You speak to me of the threat of Ulamog. But do not forget: they came as three."
—Ugin, to Jace Beleren




Most living things were weakened and stunted in the ruinous aftermath of the Phyrexian invasion, but a few grew more horrid than ever.
"I like goblins. They make funny little popping sounds when they die."
—Braids, dementia summoner


"I know she is somewhere in the Multiverse. I will find her no matter what, even if it means I have to travel all worlds that exist."
—Kaito Shizuki


The faultless and immaculate castes form the lower tiers of elvish society, with the exquisite caste above them. At the pinnacle is the perfect, a consummate blend of aristocrat and predator.




Frost giants study for centuries in isolation, honing their ability to harness elemental mayhem.

"The vizier of poisons teaches an unconventional kind of strength."









"What you are attempting is not against the law. It is, however, extremely foolish."
When tempers run high, it's easy to lose your head.
From the remnants of the dead, Geth forged a swarm to safeguard his throne.
"There are some qualities—some incorporate things,/ That have a double life, which thus is made/ A type of twin entity which springs/ From matter and light, evinced in solid and shade."
—Edgar Allan Poe, "Silence"


In recursive chess, one piece can capture another only after beating it in a game of recursive chess.

"What cannot be destroyed will be bound, but do try to destroy it the first time."
—Rem Karolus, Blade of the Inquisitors


For most, deadly. For a dragon, decadent.
"You never know what day might be your last."


Hunger is a kind of madness—and here, all madness flourishes.
The first sliver burst against the cave wall, and others piled in behind to deepen the new tunnel.

Legend has it that Serpents used to be bigger, but how could that be?





Nature can't be tamed, but the Sun Empire believes that humans are made stronger when they test themselves against the wild strength of the dinosaurs.
"We called them 'armored lightning.'"
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*
During biotransference, the Necrontyr lost almost all individuality. What little remained was imprisoned within a living metal form.


For every wound there is a blessing; for every death, a reckoning.


It takes guts to be a trailblazer.

To Mirrodin, an explosive. To Phyrexia, a missionary.
The most violent and destructive storms in Femeref occur on cloudless days.
Even in New Phyrexia, red mana sparks glimmers of individualism, passion, and freedom.

"From void evolved Phyrexia. Great Yawgmoth, Father of Machines, saw its perfection. Thus the Grand Evolution began."
—*Phyrexian Scriptures*
In Gavony wishing is taken as a sign of weakness, yet the wells usually brim with silver.
"My child grew from rot and ruin, yet she bloomed."
—Multani

He draws strength from a vast source few mortals can fathom. Designed by Isaiah Cartwright

Valuing scholarship above all else, the inhabitants of the Ivory Tower reward those who sacrifice power for knowledge.
"Resignedly beneath the sky/The melancholy waters lie./So blend the turrets and shadows there/That all seem pendulous in air,/While from a proud tower in town/Death looks gigantically down." —Edgar Allan Poe, "The City in the Sea"


"Everybody but me—CHARGE!"

"I'm about to make you famous. From the golden city to High and Dry, they'll talk about how fast you died!"
"Fear holds no place in faith's battle plan."
"Spread out, you idiots! Spread out!"
—Marsden, party leader, last words
A killing machine from birth.
Only Sylvok magic could truly capture the perfection of a Mirrodin sunrise.

"Pound the steel until it fits. Doesn't work? Bash to bits."
—Dwarven forging song
"What size advantage? They never even see me coming."

As it twists, so does all life around it.
Forever after, she lived in fear of the madness reclaiming her.


The roots preserved the armor for a hundred years, safeguarding it for a traveler in need.


Buried under a thin layer of dirt, it was known for centuries as Mount Sardia.
Inspiration comes in all shapes and sizes.


What burns the land, boils the seas.
The Warlord decreed that only someone who could move the statue would be strong enough to marry the princess. So Urza moved it.

If there's anything a werewolf hates, it's a collar—especially Avacyn's Collar, the symbol of her church.


Its victims are known by their eyes: shattered vessels leaking broken dreams.
"The final stage of the illness: delirium, convulsions, and death."
—Phyrexian progress notes
The slith incubate in the Great Furnace's heat, emerging on Mirrodin's surface only when the four suns have aligned overhead.

She had not believed any shred of humanity remained in these writhing monsters until the twisted form of her partner appeared before her.
"These moonless, foreign skies keep me in thrall. Dark whispers echo in the night, and I cannot resist."
—Selenia, dark angel








"Nothin' beat surprise—'cept rock."

He grants endless wishes, as long as you always wish for a blade.


The guildmasters loom large in the political sphere, but in the end, the rulers of Ravnica are its people.




The Abzan turn to this spell only as a last resort, for its inevitable result is what they most dread: to be alone.


"Little insects, I have created entire worlds and extinguished twice as many."
Heavy light flooded across the landscape, cloaking everything in deep crimson.
On the Planet of Sorcerers in the Eye of Terror lies the Tower of the Cyclops, the redoubt of Magnus the Red.
A single drop turns skin to scale and fist to claw.




At the first sign of danger, she breaks out the power chords.

The Orzhov started using hawks as messengers in order to bypass the many toll roads and bridges that dot Ravnica. Soon the service became one of their most profitable businesses.
Art is unknown to the vedalken—for them, all creations must serve a purpose.
As Narset struggled to meditate, tiny dragonlings spiraled around her, conjuring thoughts of ancient clans.


When Selesnya missionaries moved into the Shanav Quarter, they faced scorn, ridicule, and ultimately martyrdom.
"My tales of war are the stories most asked for around the fires at night, but they're the ones I care least to tell."
"It isn't for fighting. It's for when the fighting's gone bad."
—Kara Vrist, Mirran resistance
"Yavimaya is aware, but not always awake. You will know the difference when you see it."
—Karn


"...we need seeds, yo."
"Lots of seeds, and..."

One head senses the curse. The second loosens it from the soul. The third drinks it as an invigorating mist.
"Never leave the future to fate."
"We three, though of separate ancestry, join in brotherhood. . . . We dare not hope to be together always but hereby vow to die the selfsame day."
—Peach Garden Oath
The traditional kings of the jungle command a healthy respect in other climates as well. Relying mainly on their stealth and speed, Savannah Lions can take a victim by surprise, even in the endless flat plains of their homeland.
"Always carry two spears."
—Mokgar, Kalonian hunter
"The patterns of crossing ripples reveal the future to those who know how to read them."


"Greet death with sword in hand."





What a lonely agony, the memory of memories lost.
Rimewind necromancers caught travelers in mystical blizzards then trapped their spirits in the mist of their final frozen breaths.



Information travels quickly through Ravnica's network of messengers and thought agents.

"Blue, glossy green, and velvet black,
They coiled and swam; and every track
Was a flash of golden fire."
—Samuel Taylor Coleridge
"The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"



Not even death will keep her from her mission.





"Fire is the universal language."
—Jhoira, master artificer
"Thrashes of the ancient past still linger in spirit and shadow, desperate to sink their claws into our souls."
—Rakka Mar
A living invention born of a grand design.
"Though their ideals are leagues apart, Urza's and Mishra's creations have a surprising harmony with one another."
—Tocasia, journal entry



He wields the full power of wrath unfettered by the sympathies of a soul.



"The sun's strength sings in our hearts! I have never been more proud of my home and my people."
—Huatli

A goblin raid is a delicate gambit—a blend of stealth, precision, and screaming death.
By the battle of Red Cliffs in the year 208, the Wu kingdom controlled more than seven thousand warships on the Yangtze.
"You will learn to earn death."
—Volrath

There is no loftier ambition than the pursuit of knowledge.

"We are trapped. The mountains and blinding kami storms have made us hopelessly lost. We are starving. In the name of all things sacred, please, send help . . . ."
—Lost Battalion, final message to General Takeno
At the second battle of Ruxu, the brave Wu general Gan Ning raided Cao Cao's camp of 400,000 men with only 100 cavalry. Not a single man or horse was lost.
"Your mind is too filled with foolish concerns to hear the subtle whispers that the breeze brings."
"To halt these lurid practices, Geralf must be found and made an example of."
—Inquisitor Delmund
"If the air must feed, let it take the self-righteous."
—Murat, death speaker
The longest nights are measured not in hours, but in heartbeats.
"If you want them dead, buy some poison. If you want them to have the worst day of their life before dying, then let's talk price."


"I tire of your prattle, and your face."



When the Brotherhood of Gix dug out the cave of Koilos they found their master's severed hand. They enshrined it, hoping that one day it would point the way to Phyrexia.


In the roiling depths of the Eye of Terror, the bloodthirsty hordes of Chaos Marines plot the downfall of their loyalist brethren.
"Be silent and listen to your inner fire. Only then can you walk the Path of Flame."
". . . [A]nd gives to airy nothing/ A local habitation and a name."
—William Shakespeare, *A Midsummer-Night's Dream*


Sounds of life beckon many a restless soul.
"You're about to be struck by a brilliant idea!"



"As long as we can utter a prayer or lift a weapon, we have the power to fight back."
—Thalia, Knight-Cathar

The meat, on the other hand, has frequent visitors.
Sins that would be too gruesome in the light of day are made more pleasing in the dark of night.

A bristling wave of slivers broke against the *Weatherlight*'s timbers.

"As one, nature lifts its voice to tell you this: 'No.'"


"I can think of *one* goblin it ain't so lucky for."
—Slobad, goblin tinkerer
Animated by geists fused in its oak, it hungers for more life to add to its core.

She sings for all those who have been silenced.
"Gold can be reearned, goods restored. The moroii steal youth, more precious than either, and once gone, it's gone forever."
—Berta Suszat, civic healer
"It's a difficult task to quarantine a plague that moves with the clouds."
—Esara, healer adept
Goblin cavalry tactics consist of pointing a beast in a direction and hanging on for as long as possible.


Æther can turn a footprint into a blueprint.

"No rest. No mercy. No matter what."
—Memorial inscription
In the clangor and chaos of the akki attack, few even noticed the frogs on their heads.

"Mercy? Mercy is for the playground, not the battleground."





Rakdos cultists are her best customers. They never flinch at pain and are seldom good at math.
"Never forget our ancestors. They have not forgotten us."
—Mikaeus, the Lunarch


A single seed unleashes a flurry of growth.

By the time the spider comes to slurp up its dinner, its victims have been partially dissolved by acidic silk.


By studying dragon anatomy, Jeskai monks have learned how to locate clusters of nerves that will incapacitate even the mightiest dragons.
Leave it to a boggart to come up with a projectile as disgusting as it is deadly.



"In Rath," the priest said, "there is even greater need for prayer."

www.MagicTheGathering.com


The minotaur stared at the Eternal bearing down on him—the embodiment of deadly skill he had aspired to become.
Such plush accommodations.
Beacons along the borderlands are lit at any incursion from the wilds.

"The merchant asked for riches no one had ever dreamed of. The djinn, smiling, granted his wish."
—Afari, *Tales*

"I have a number of hyper-specific phobias and this somehow hits all of them."
—Aaru, Zagoth lumberjack
The Pardic Mountains are known for their spicy cuisine.
"Control to Truss. Chief, the entry scan software is reading babies as hot dogs. Again."
—Glaxxar, engineering assistant
Rakdos cultists are her best customers. They never flinch at pain and are seldom good at math.


"Some aspire to climb the mountain of Honor. The Benalish are born upon its peak, and from there ascend among the stars."
—*History of Benalia*
"Graceful? Yes. Beautiful? Absolutely. Harmless? Definitely not."
—Fyndhorn elder
The runes glow beneath the snow, bearing memories of a time when the old gods ruled the realms.
A siren once tried to steal it out of jealousy but was caught by the song of its strings.
Minutes before the campus watch busted pledge week at the Alpha Beta Unlimited house . . .
Too obviously xenos in form to blend into human society, the acolytes haunt the dark places beneath industrial sprawls.


"Once we have claimed this planet, we will claim the stars."
When he reaches for his key ring, you should be running for the exit.

"His laugh, a bellowing, deathly din, slices through the heavens, making them bleed."
—*The Seer's Parables*






"I give them dreams so wondrous that they hesitate to return to the world of the conscious."
—Garild, merfolk mage
". . . [A]nd gives to airy nothing A local habitation and a name."
—William Shakespeare, *A Midsummer-Night's Dream*
For the Simic Combine, its sigil serves not as an emblem of honor but as a trademark. Its familiar image on any biological commodity attests to superb craftsmanship, ingenious innovation, and higher cost.





"Dear brother, it's sweet that you have chosen to share your toys with Ludevic, but I too have found some new playmates."
—Ghoulcaller Gisa


"The dim resort to violence, for which the nimble prepare."
—Leovold, emissary of Trest
"Hail the Children of the Stars!"
—Magus Lucea Kane
"Lo lord of layers proudly comb-crested
Hero to hens father to feathers
Crowing sun-caller weaver of wattle
Elder to eggs."
—*Rooster Saga*
"I didn't survive that crash just so I could fall to the likes of you."
"We guarantee you that within a week, you will feel like a new man."
—Galaxos Klynesmith, biophagus
"Gods don't die. They merely slumber."
—Ayli, Kamsa cleric
Nature can't be tamed, but the Sun Empire believes that humans are made stronger when they test themselves against the wild strength of the dinosaurs.


War after war, a healer's enemy is always the same—death itself.








"To forgive our enemies is to forgive ourselves."
"All I ask is complete obedience."
—Nicol Bolas


They'll attack whatever's in front of them—as long as you tell them where that is.

It slithers through the senses, constricting consciousness and poisoning perceptions.
"The dead know their place."
"As one, nature lifts its voice to tell you this: 'No.'"
"Spent a lifetime learning from predators. Picked up a few tricks."


"With each knight that rode out from the bone-white keep, the queen's soldiers felt their courage failing."
—Krinnea, *Siege of the Bone Spire*


Purphoros once loved Nylea, the god of the hunt. His passion inspired his most astounding works of art.
Carefully following the thaumatic compass Bolas had given her, Vraska blundered straight into the River Heralds' trap.
"The explorer who found it got a bad deal when he sold it. He merely got rich."
The rigs were outlawed except in Nephalia, where malign spirits are as plentiful as crazed inventors.

"She spoke of mystery and portent, of such unfathomable things that my mind screamed for pity."
—*The Seer's Parables*

One distracts the victim, the other extracts the valuables.


You want "mise" with that?
"No doubt the arbiters would put you away, after all the documents are signed. But I will have justice now."
—Alovnek, Boros guildmage



"The lemures had barely taken wing when the sky roared with thunder. The swarm of little beasts wavered, divided, and fell, crashing to the earth."
—General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox
On the volcanic continent of Akoum, bizarre vegetation clusters around gas vents, and jagged mountain peaks rise high into the air.
They poured from the Skirk Ridge like lava, burning and devouring everything in their path.
Each day of their journey, Jandor opened the saddlebags and found them full of mutton, quinces, cheese, date rolls, wine, and all manner of delicious and satisfying foods.
Many can stand where one would fall.

"The battlefield is cluttered enough. Be still."
—Multani, maro-sorcerer

The strider's long, loping gait is an adaptation that allows it to move quickly in deep snow.

On rare occasions, a Prismari student will summon an elemental that shows such promise that it's permitted to stay and enroll.

"It would be folly to fight a dragon engine head-on. Let's hit it from above."



Elvish dawnhands test a relic's worthiness before collecting it for the safehold. If it can't stand up to a stiff breeze, it's left behind.

Its venom drips with Phyrexia's hate.


"Soaring is wasted on the winged."
—Edric, Spymaster of Trest

"One day, an Autobot shall rise from our ranks and use the power of the Matrix to light our darkest hour. Until that day, till all are one."
—Optimus Prime






As you make camp near the ancient ruin, you hear the sound of drums echoing in halls where no dwarf has lived in generations.

"A colony of horrors lurks beneath the mire. One must move deliberately with every ste—"
—Loamlair guide, last words
What goes up, must come down.


"I have become a gourmet of sorts. Each soul has its own distinctive flavor. The art is in inviting the right company to the feast."
Is it at the top of the food chain or the bottom?



"When I said I needed a hand, I didn't mean this."
—Gerrard Capashen


"Make people wait for what they want, and you have power over them. This is as true for merchants and militia as it is for cooks and couples."
—Gwendlyn Di Corci
The best presents are impossible to regift.
Everyone has something to hide.
"The gods of Theros are born of the expectations and beliefs of mortals. If I have found godhood, what does that say about their true desires?"
—Xenagos, god of revels
"The light of the Ancestor will scour the taint of darkness from the land."
Greven *il*-Vec lifted Vhati off his feet. "The fall will give you time to think on your failure."
A blazing sun that never sets.
Swarms thrive in its nest, feeding on leathery bits of discarded wing.
A symbol of sagacity in bewildering times.
Remote but always watching, the soaring city of Otawara moves over Kamigawa with a purpose that few understand.

Although she wore Nivea's kind face, her heart held nothing but vengeance.
Everyone who could still lift a weapon had a part in retaking Sea Gate.
She remembers all those who would otherwise be forgotten.
One of the most ferocious and deadly gargantuans, the thoctar never sees its worshippers, but it often awakens surrounded by gifts and sacrifices.


The unicorns of Sursi are a manifestation of Serra's joy and compassion. They frolic and dance like children, offering blessings to anyone they encounter.
"Hold your fire, obviously."
—Captain Brandis Thorn

On Otaria, peace and harmony are rare. Places that provide both are cherished.
"There is nothing stronger than many hearts united for a single cause."
—Emmara

A hero dies, and a legend arises.
"Nothing in nature goes to waste, not even the rotting corpse of a good-for-nothing, blood-sucking vampire."
—Halana of Ulvenwald
All that remains of the Cabal are the echoes in its deepest vault. Yet those who hear the echoes feel a power undiminished by the dust of ages.
Only the goblins could make a simple machine so complex.


An emblem of a secret guild, the Dimir insignia is seen only by its own members—and the doomed.
"We pray to Avacyn on high.
On snow-white wings fearless you fly.
Keep safe our souls. Keep safe our lives.
May angels watch us from the skies."
—Children's prayer

Together the soldiers were like a golden blade, cutting down their enemies and scarring the darkness.

Frog is the sincerest form of flattery.
"Until the world unites in vengeful fury and Phage is destroyed, I will not stay my hand."
—Akroma, angelic avenger

"Before I hire new recruits, I test how long they can hold their breath. You'd be surprised how often it comes up."
—Zahr Gada, Halimar expedition leader
"Share your darkest secret and the Mirror will reveal your soul's essence."
—Ceri, royal mirrorkeeper

One bone broken for every twig snapped underfoot.
—Llanowar penalty for trespassing
Frost giants study for centuries in isolation, honing their ability to harness elemental mayhem.
A living remnant of the Ice Age.
Fire finds its form in the heat of the forge.


The tenderness of a mother. The pity of a mantis.
"Those who witness my work often question its necessity. I've never understood that."
—Dr. Julius Jumblemorph
Sometimes the strongest weapon you can hold in your hand is another hand.
"That's a start. What else do you have for us?"
—Takumi, Reckoner enforcer


Urza thought it a crusade. Xantcha knew it was a robbery.
Dappled coats become armored hides. Soft jaws become razor tusks. Nestling play becomes the fight for survival.

The shapeshifter mimics with a twin's esteem and a mirror's cruelty.






"Wherever there is life, there is power for one who knows the old ways."




Gerrard savored a grim smile as the Phyrexian portals disappeared behind the *Weatherlight*.

Since the war began, the castle's walls mark the only place on Kamigawa where no kami has ever set foot.
"What's your plan?" Gideon asked.
"Are you serious?" Chandra replied.





"My child grew from rot and ruin, yet she bloomed."
—Multani


The forest's constant struggle is to keep the spreading flowstone at bay.
"Boom! Boom! Boots the size of oxcarts, then an axe like a falling sun. Elves scattered. Trees scattered. Even the hills ran for the hills!"
—*Clachan Tales*
"Many great warriors died in the first days of the war, as the spirits of their weaponry turned against them with terrifying rage."
—*Observations of the Kami War*
"Now!"

"As a kid, I dreamed of flying on those wild drakes. They inspired me to build wings of my own."
—Nadja Cloudtoucher, aerowright
The people of Terisiare had come to live on frozen fields as though on solid ground. Nothing reminded them of the difference more clearly than the rifts brought on by the Thaw.
Great evil weighs on the soul.



For generations, the inhabitants of Orvada have hungered for turtle soup. For generations, the turtles have frustrated their ambitions.

Some fiendish mage had created a horrifying wall of living flesh, patched together from a jumble of still-recognizable body parts. As we sought to hew our way through it, some unknown power healed the gaping wounds we cut, denying us passage.

By the law of church and crown, vampires feed only on the blood of the guilty—those declared heretics, rebels, or enemies of war.

Stripped and blasted by millennia of war, every planet eventually looks the same.


"Zendikar's wounds can be healed."
Weakness exists within all who are not dragons.
"He's got more finesse than most goblins. He smashes windows with his fist rather than his forehead."
—Arrester Polgar

"To wage war, secure peace within yourself."
—Emmara


"Only a mind unfettered with the concerns of the flesh can see the world as it truly is."
"Avacyn emerged from the broken Helvault, but her freedom came at a price—him."
—Thalia, Knight-Cathar
The destruction of Markov Manor made the surviving members of the bloodline more dangerous.


The barrier between existence and oblivion is thinner than you know.
Then the maiden bade him cast off his robes and cover his body with fishliver oil, that he might safely follow her into the sea.





"I do not understand the future I see: the guilds subverted, the world at war, armies bent to a cruel conqueror's will."



The Boros banner stands tall even if its bearer doesn't.
"Just as some fool said it couldn't get worse, the rats began to show up."
—Foot soldier
"We all want to know what's going on in someone else's head. I simply open it up and look."



Masters of the sword know the blade is not the only weapon at their disposal.
"Thallids could absorb energy from the forest itself. Even Elves were at a disadvantage in fighting them."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. III*
"When lost souls wander into the woods, the wilds have a way of showing them who they really are."
—Rahilda, Vildin-Pack alpha



"If we have learned nothing else, we have learned to survive."
—Mystic elder
The Crimson Throne may be empty, but its coffers are full.
"Learn to burn!"
—Institute of Arcane Studies motto
"Glory was gone; Glory was everywhere."
—*Scroll of Beginnings*
"Fight for a better future, even if you may not live to see it."
—Grete, Order of Saint Traft




"Just a taste?"
Deathbellow Canyon echoes with the roars of minotaurs calling each other to battle.


The delicate sprites carry messages for Saprazzans, but they refuse to land in Mercadia City's filthy markets.
"If we cannot live proudly, we die so!"
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
Nightscape masters don't stop at raising the spirit of a fallen battlemage. They raise the flesh along with it.


Even in areas of profound devastation, the hedrons remained intact.
Many have heard the slither of dragging armor and the soft squelch of its voice. But only its victims ever meet its icy gaze.


Few are able to underestimate the hordes.


Little things like morals shouldn't hinder one's ambition.
—Pirate creed
I'll take the patrol through the hunting grounds. You take the caves. Give me an angry apex predator over those little creepy-crawlies any day."
—Oranes, Yavimaya hunter
"If we do our duty and uphold our honor, Kjeldor shall stand for a thousand years."
—Arna Kennerüd, Skyknight
"Your defiance is noted."



"Nature? Fire? Bah! Both are chaotic and difficult to control. Ice is structured, latticed, light as a feather, massive as a glacier. In ice, there is power!"
—Heidar, Rimewind master



Gurley was the first to domesticate one, though his widow didn't take much solace in that accomplishment.

One mogg to aim the catapult, one mogg to steer the rock.


The boiling seas around Shiv provided a welcome layer of protection for the reclaimed Mana Rig.

The shaman looked at the world through Ghalta's eyes and understood that everything else was his prey.
"I said 'pick his brain,' not 'tear off his head.'"
—Riptide Project researcher

With one commanding word, the spell was put down and a fine collected for its casting.
For some goods, the best couriers are the dead.
Five gods, one purpose.




To be counted among the warriors of Setessa's Leina Tower, you must not fear death, only failure.
"One day, or another, perhaps I shall ring my pretty chime . . . loudly, so that all may hear."
—Grandmother Sengir
Ships blown north in their voyage across the Stormwreck Sea become trapped in the unmelting ice.



Scholars had puzzled for centuries over the ruins at Tal Terig. Its secrets had always lived within one rune-carved head.
The Skelle spent days carving runes and erecting their scorn poles. The herd crushed them to splinters in seconds.


"Let those who bear the brand receive no shelter, no kindness, and no comfort from our people."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
No two see the same Maro.
Harthag gave a jolly laugh as he surveyed the army before him. "Ho ho ho! Midgets! You think you can stand in my way?"

Poxwalkers are victims of the Walking Pox, a cruel virulence which rots the infected to death while keeping them conscious.


"The sky isn't the limit. It's the starting point."


"I long for peaceful times, when I may tend to my garden instead of our borders."

"These alleys are not safe. Come, I can guide you back to the market square."
"I'm sure we can come to an arrangement."



If everything in the Gurmag Swamp hungers for human flesh, what bait could be more effective?



"With precise coordination and enough blood spilled, one can be driven off, even brought down. But two . . . that's a lot of blood."
—Munda, ambush leader
"My angel is the flint, and I am her steel."



Sin is debt, and absolution is paid in tithes of gold and blood.
"I think I cracked a fang."
A cleric's true balm is the confidence he inspires in his compatriots.


Kolaghan's army rushes from kill to kill, desperate to avoid the dragon's wrath.


With one motion, a pest is removed and a scourge inflicted.
Dragons of Silumgar's brood begin to digest their prey even before consuming it, letting their caustic breath do much of the work.
The glittering strands of its complex web catch everything from a buzzing gnat to a passing bloatdrake.



"Truth is always a weapon in your enemies' hands."
—Geth, Lord of the Vault

The touch of his madness can drive anyone into a killing frenzy.
"Their two-tone vocalization contains a whistle and a roar. Both mean get away."
—Vivien Reid


For the Rakdos, "suicidal charge" and "good showmanship" are one and the same.



Few who cross Phage have the chance to repeat the mistake.
It embodies the riotous growth of the jungle, where creatures crowd upon creatures, where roots sprawl and vines swarm.
Bogardan is a land as volatile as the creatures who live there.
"The Mardu rush headlong toward extinction. We ensure the longevity of our clan by protecting our territory, not rampaging through it."

Its diet consists of fruits, plants, small woodland animals, large woodland animals, woodlands, fruit groves, fruit farmers, and small cities.

"Avacyn has abandoned us! We have nothing left except what we can take!"

"Flame grows gentle with but a little distance."
—Orim, Samite healer

After the Battle of Liet Field, the white sun crested above Taj-Nar, bringing hope to all who survived the carnage.
"Only the deathless can truly comprehend the burden of unfailing loyalty."
—Vargard Obyron of the Sautekh Dynasty
"As long as my hand holds a blade, there's hope for a pure Mirrodin once again."

"For strength to have any meaning, there must also be . . . you."
Merfolk curiosity usually has dire consequences, but rarely for the merfolk.
Those who raged most bitterly at the world in life are cursed to roam the nether realms in death.


Once he'd worked out which end of the thing was sharp, he was promoted to guard duty.

Battle doesn't need a purpose; the battle is its own purpose. You don't ask why a plague spreads or a field burns. Don't ask why I fight.







"We must shake her limbs and rattle her brains."
—Grandmother Sengir

Nature doesn't walk.

"They ride our trails as if they were designed to," said the guard. "They were," replied Gerrard.
"Let them come. We will show them that Argivian steel is stronger than any Phyrexian metal."

"Welcome, one and all! Right this way! Open your eyes, your ears, and your imaginations to the wonders of the Inventors' Fair!"
The orcs' banner sends a clear message: "Stand against us and meet the same fate as the goblins."



A slith's form and function are determined by the color of the sun under which it's born.
"The lands of the God-Pharaoh are suffused with his breath."

The Cabal required a suitably immense space to house the lucrative fruits of their religious zeal.


"It's just a snake. A many-eyed snake with venom that turns your blood to smoke, but still, just a snake."
—Kinnan, bonder prodigy
"Let the forest spread! From salt, stone, and fen, let the new trees rise."
—Molimo, maro-sorcerer
The Night Serpent tasted the warlock's ambition and savored the dark hunger in her soul.

"Wrath is no vice when inflicted upon the deserving."

Wars are not fought on a single front.

There are two lives: the life you live before you see a unicorn, and the life you live after.
"Savagery is the birthright of every creature that draws breath—or wishes it could."
—Karador, Ghost Chieftain


According to Auriok myth, it collects scrap in order to reassemble its lost rider.




"It's hard to hurt anyone when you're as transparent as your motives."
—Ertai, wizard adept

Fascinated by the lore of ancient struggles, the Archaeologist searches incessantly for remnants of an earlier, more powerful era.
"Her weapon's impressive, sure. But you should see her wield it."
—Gred, expedition warrior

If your flesh can withstand the flame, the spirit of the dragon will burn within your soul.
Not all deaths are etched with mythic meaning and iconic glory.
"Into amethyst, I pour
Envy's shadow, sorrow's gleam.
Lure the one whose scorn I bore
That I may hear one final scream."
—Barrow witch incantation

Summer sends its kiss with warmth and blooming life.
Before a woman marries in the village of Sursi, she must visit the land of the Mesa Pegasus. Legend has it that if the woman is pure of heart and her love is true, a Mesa Pegasus will appear, blessing her family with long life and good fortune.

Regardless of the century, plane, or species, developing artificers never fail to invent the ornithopter.

"Give me a thousand such Warriors and I could change the world."
—Avram Garrisson, Leader of the Knights of Stromgald
As a mortal, Phenax was the first to escape the Underworld. As a god, he brings his pawns along the same dark path.

"I deal so often in rotting corpses that when I come across the freshly dead . . . why, it's like my birthday come early."
—Nevinyrral, necromancer
"The longer the journey, the more one learns."
—Isanke, Halimar seastalker

Once guarded by the Knights of the Reliquary, the tower stands now protected only by its own remoteness, its dusty treasures open to plunder by anyone.

The sparkmage shrieked, calling on the rage of the storms of his youth. To his surprise, the sky responded with a fierce energy he'd never thought to see again.

"I would rather cast myself into the abyss than let my blood stain the cap of those monsters."
—Syr Alin, the Lion's Claw
"My eyes are my strongest feature."









The Extinguisher's curse lasted long after her departure.

"Kill the weak so they can't drag the strong down to their level. This is true compassion."
—Benzir, archdruid of Temple Might
"It's delightful, the things their owners reveal when they think no one is listening."
The grave robbers arrived the day after the burial. They were a day too late.



All are welcome.
To protect the alliance between Kjeldor and Yavimaya, they trained in the ways of both.
Interlopers in Sultai territory usually end up as crocodile chow or baboon bait.
Saprolings always thrive on the ruins of others, and Mercadia ruins more than most.
Out of the blackness and stench of the engulfing swamp emerged a shimmering figure. Only the splattered armor and ichor-stained sword hinted at the unfathomable evil the knight had just laid waste.

To some mages, the meaning of life is less important than how much is left.
"I will protect the less fortunate. I will love bravely. I will face despair and fight on. As a Capashen, I can do no less."


"Time is like the Luxa River—though it flows in one direction, it can be diverted."


Before a woman marries in the village of Sursi, she must visit the land of the Mesa Pegasus. Legend has it that if the woman is pure of heart and her love is true, a Mesa Pegasus will appear, blessing her family with long life and good fortune.
Literally made for battle.
"Only when we journey into the unknown can we find the impossible."
—Cyrul the Wanderer

Grace is a gift, never a reward.

"Cry to the sun and watch as even your tears forsake you."
—Acolyte of Marit Lage

To Olivia's guests, a welcome. To everyone else, a warning.

"I do love the rain . . . but this storm feels somehow wrong, Taysir."
—Daria


When the prey in Krosa no longer satisfied them, the beasts began to hunt their hunters.
Unaware of Lorwyn's diversity, it sees only itself, reflected a thousand times over.


Alms-coins are only redeemable at Orzhov businesses.
When Anafenza holds court under the First Tree, the gates of Mer-Ek are sealed. No safer place exists in all of Tarkir.
"After these words the magician drew a ring off his finger, and put it on one of Aladdin's, saying: 'It is a talisman against all evil, so long as you obey me.'" —*The Arabian Nights*, Junior Classics trans.


"Look, we both get what we want. I get your Halo. You get to keep your kneecaps."
You might leave here, Chenndra, should another take your place . . . .

"Let nothing own the skies but the wind."
—Dejara, Giltwood druid

The only thing that smells worse than troll is burnt troll.

The Rakdos believe that all are eager to join their revels, even when told otherwise.
Smart artificers clean up after themselves.

"There's no reason to buy a new one when I've got the tools to fix the one you've got."
—Ripu, repair specialist


"Blow, fiery wind, / strip illusion from the eye. / Blow, fiery wind of truth."
—Femeref chant

"'Do you know, I always thought Unicorns were fabulous monsters, too? I never saw one alive before!' 'Well, now that we have seen each other,' said the Unicorn, 'if you'll believe in me, I'll believe in you.'"
—Lewis Carroll,
*Through the Looking-Glass*

Tamiyo wished only to observe the war, but she soon realized neutrality was not an option.





Don't try to outrun one of Dominia's Grizzlies; it'll catch you, knock you down, and eat you. Of course, you could run up a tree. In that case you'll get a nice view before it knocks the tree down and eats you.
He just likes to break legs. Collecting the debt is a bonus.

The soldiers of the Legion of Dusk have come to the colonies at Queen's Bay in search of glory and riches. They are veterans of centuries of warfare, and they thirst for conquest.

Ride into legend.
"Basri has shown me the way forward, and I will follow."

Kuldotha, wellspring of molten metal, temple of the goblin horde.




"Take up the quill, and feel your future flow into the runes."
Some timelines forever fray, branch, and intermingle. Others end abruptly.
Grief is a razor that slices the soul.


"The trick isn't setting up the bad trade. It's making each side think it got the better deal."
The light of reason follows them even into battle.



"This is just my warm-up."
"I hear the roaring of a wave whose waters are red and whose mists are black."
—Oracle *en*-Vec
"What do you have that I cannot obtain?"
—Mairsil, called the Pretender


"All are not equal—neither in life nor after death. Bontu's favorites will stand highest in eternity."
—Senifet, vizier of Bontu
No one welcomes his visit, yet all must grant him tribute.
"All the knowledge of Lat-Nam could not protect its sages from the Brothers' War."
—Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen
The Locust God's children were numberless, relentlessly eating away every trace of the city's protection.
"It's not enough to defeat our foes. We must learn from them, too."
—Vannifar
Atarka serving-goblins coat themselves with grease imbued with noxious herbs, hoping to discourage their ravenous masters from adding them to the meal.



"Elves and beasts are tied together, and I am the knot that binds them."


Not even a threat to the entire Multiverse could persuade them to put aside their feud.
A passionate recruiter will win a war before the first arrow flies.
There is a sanctuary that reveals itself only to those graced by the *eludha*—the mystical connection between bonder and monster.


"Dragons in flight seldom expect company."
—Kadri, Dromoka warrior


Villagers cloaked the town in magical silence, but their ears still bled.
"Oh, no—not *you* again?!"
—Jaya Ballard, task mage




Her wits are sharp, but her blades are sharper.
Only one vault was great enough to hold Emrakul.
When the architects of Ravnica claim a structure will stand against a wurm, they never mention for how long.
Bred for battle in the Grand Coliseum, these wurms annihilated whole ecosystems when released into the wild.
"The most disappointing thing about learning telepathy is finding out how boring people really are."
—Teferi, fourth-level student


"Water is firmament to the finned."
—Oracle *en*-Vec




"A good forage if you can find it, but eat it before you get back to sanctuary. The guards won't let you bring it through the gates."
—Dennae, Savai hunter
「家を願い世界を受け取った。」
—-九つの祝福の巻物
It sleeps with its claws open.


"Bitter water vicious wave
Shadow-cold shallows root-made maze
Home's angry embrace."
—*Rootwater Saga*

"Peace will come, but whether born of harmony or entropy I cannot say."
—Oracle *en*-Vec
The giant spider's silk naturally resists gravity, almost weaving itself as it blankets the forest canopy.
"Reports of Gruul rioters in four districts. Start with the big ones and work your way up."
—Libuse, Boros sergeant


"We have faced horrors of war and terrors beyond imagining. We will overcome the uncertainties of this new life."
Many Tin Street shops display a sign on the door: "No cloaks allowed."



He has the biggest bashing stick, so it's a safe bet he's the leader.

"The desire for its magic horn inspires such bloodthirsty greed that all who see the unicorn will kill to possess it."
—Dionus, elvish archdruid
Even the darkest corners of Ravnica still lie in the shadow of the Church.


Created to destroy Dominia, Demons can sometimes be bent to a more focused purpose.

The histories speak of two feuding rulers whose deaths were celebrated and whose monuments symbolized the end of their wars. In truth they were peaceful lovers, their story lost to the ages.
Taj-Nar, throne of Raksha Golden Cub, destined leader of the leonin prides.




"Urabrask may suspect our surveillance, but he cannot stop it."
—Avaricta, Gitaxian sective
The gorger's insect-like eyes pick up the slightest movement in any direction. Its body then whips toward its prey with startling speed, swallowing it in one engulfing gulp.
As the hyperstormic generator crept past redline, a being emerged from the arc.
The dead sing their own lullabies.

Perfectly adapted to cross the wastes in life, they bring the wastes with them in death.
The Phyrexian death machine awoke, its coldsteel heart imbuing it with sinister new power.


To consult a sphinx is a test in patience. Perhaps that's the point.
"The dragon is a perfect marriage of power and the will to use it."
—Sarkhan Vol
"I waded through a river of fire to bring death to Bretagard."
Better to fight the sand for a few hours than to sleep beneath it forever.
—Suq'Ata truism



"Here on going is heck the what?"


Flumphs siphon thoughts and energy from evil aberrations, and are often eager to share the dark knowledge they obtain with friendly adventurers.
"Thopters from a foundry always lack that personal touch."

"Imagine a thunderstorm that's also a tactical genius. That's him."
—Dars Gostok, Firefist captain
The essence of sunlight to brighten the way.


"The forest surrounding the Vess estate became the Caligo Morass, a vast bog stalked by horrors too terrible to name."
—"The Fall of the House of Vess"


"You idiots! Turn it around! Turn it around!"


Mood: Determined to find evidence of wrongdoing.

"The tides have begun to ignore the moon."
—Tamiyo's journal
"Dear brother, it's sweet that you have chosen to share your toys with Ludevic, but I too have found some new playmates."
—Ghoulcaller Gisa





Winners of the Iroan Games are forever remembered as heroes of their people.
All are welcome.

"Let us never forget the joy that lies at the heart of invention."
"He Guan Yu covered the ground on a thousand-li horse;/ With dragon blade he took each pass by force."
Atarka goblins meet their demise as readily as their Temur counterparts did, but usually under big, winged shadows.

"Unless you like the idea of becoming some goblin's lunch, get up and move!"
"Ah, the midway, beating heart of the—well, maybe the big top is the heart. If there were two hearts then the midway—or the lungs. Lungs or stomach!"
—Captain Rex Nebula

It oozes death from every pore.
"I'm back from the Dead," the zombie moaned. "And they were far out, man."

"Gotcha."
WARNING: Shake gently. Contents may cause choking, hypothermia, and/or planar invasion.
"Like dawn's first light, blind the unprepared and banish the shadows."
—Skyhunter creed
The mine's riches never end, nor do the moans of the spirits doomed to haunt them.

The envoy spoke, and Sidisi replied.
"With a diet of hydras, giants, and massive serpents, anything would get that big."
—Corisande, Setessan hunter
For his family, Barrin made a funeral pyre of Tolaria.


"Courage is the only shield I need."


"I don't know why the little one was so mad. He said to put him down, and I put him down."
Unlimited potential needs only a spark of ambition.
Some of the eleven minotaur clans of Mirtiin are expert crafters and learned philosophers. Others just like to hit stuff.
On a world with five suns, night is compelled to become an aggressive force.

The continent of Murasa lies beneath a blanket of dense vegetation, its enormous branches tangled so thickly that some inhabitants never see the ground.



"He displays a perverse charisma fueled by avarice. Highly dangerous. Recommend civil sanctions."
—Agmand Sarv, Azorius hussar

Held aloft by metabolized magic, trygons are ravenous for sources of mystic fuel.
The flow of time was disrupted; like a flooding river it rose from its banks. Tolaria was drowned in an instant that stretched toward infinity.



The vedalken know it is not of this world, so they know that this world is not the only one.





Its growl is the crackling and popping of a wildfire untamed.
"When you hear thunder on a cloudless day, take cover and brace for the coming of the storm herd."
@-Skotov, Tin Street basket vendor



"Do you like it, Sister? Its dreadful visage was inspired by your own."


"Look to the north; there you will find aid and comfort." —The Book of Tal
"Our own selves are the greatest obstacles to enlightenment."
—Narset, khan of the Jeskai

Although greatly prized among falconers, the Zephyr Falcon is capricious and not easily tamed.
"I will protect the less fortunate. I will love bravely. I will face despair and fight on. As a Capashen, I can do no less."
"When I said I needed a hand, I didn't mean this."
—Gerrard Capashen
Only a thin layer of dirt separates civilization from an undead apocalypse.
It recreates the peaceful feeling of floating freely in space, just without all that boring peacefulness.
"We have intel that some guilds have fallen under an invader's influence. Until we're sure, no venture succeeds."
@-Lazav


The foundries of Kaladesh run like clockwork under the supervision of their formidable overseers.

When building gnomes, dwarves adhere to the highest standards. The gnomes themselves aren't as particular.
Although the Order frowned upon his preparations for the pits, behind closed doors most saw the fights as a necessary evil.
"The magic at the heart of all living things can bear awe-inspiring fruit."
—Kolevi of Havenwood, Elder Druid
"When elephants fight it is the grass that suffers." —Kikuyu Proverb


Mines became common as cities during the days of the artificers.


"Only a fool believes they have nothing left to learn."

"Look at her, once filled with innocence. Death has a way of wringing away such . . . deficiencies."
—Savra

The dead know lessons the living haven't learned.
"You want it good, fast, or cheap? You can't have all three."

"Speak little. Do much."

"An army has filled the valley, but it's not like any army I've ever seen. There are no tents, no fires, no horses . . . just a sea of bodies, writhing and moaning, as if a pestilent village were sent to invade us."
—Onean scout

Nevinyrral's final act of spite was to make sure all of his magic was destroyed along with him.

"Let them send their legions! I will show them that my truth is stronger than their swords."
—General Varchild
Wound, maim, kill: it's all the same to a Keldon.

A blazing sun that never sets.
Never alone, never afraid.
Deep in Glen Elendra blossoms Oona, queen of the faeries, nourished by secrets and pollinated by stolen dreams.
"I've made some fine acquisitions of late, so I'm planning to make commensurate improvements to my security systems. I have a consultant coming tomorrow."
—Kurna Majan, Luminary League
"The explorer who found it got a bad deal when he sold it. He merely got rich."



The legacy of Feroz lives on.

Its curve mimics the twists of life and death.

It is a herald of the sun goddess, projected from the hallowed glass whenever her light passes through.
With the Stonehorn, piety and power are one.
"We must rely on our own knowledge, not on the dogma of the seekers or the mutterings of the sphinxes."
—Tullus of Palandius


"I knew it weren't no ordinary pile of—you know." —Norin the Wary
His outer calm belies his inner fury.
"Here lies Gond, hero of Safehold Taldwen. May he ever guide our quest."
"It might fight the Eldrazi, but don't mistake it for a companion, Gideon. It's not interested in your concept of strength through unity."
—Najiya, leader of the Tajuru



"Die. But die knowing that your pathetic life will yield a great bounty for me."
—Zul Ashur, lich lord

Equenauts are the seeds of the Conclave, scattered on the four winds, searching for new places to take root.

"One raven is a bad omen. Two are a curse. I don't know what this is, but it can't be good."
—Verna, priest of Sigarda

Though no longer attached to the hand, it still holds its adversary in its grasp.
The abundance of foes in Orazca means the raptors no longer need any orders.


"After the storm, I found a sea turtle dying on the sands, a blade of grass driven through its shell."
—*Travelogue of Najat*
"The most powerful dreams visit those who shelter in a dragon's skull."
—Chianul, Who Whispers Twice


Enter with merciful hearts. Exit with battle cries.

Sometimes death comes knocking. Sometimes it tears down the walls.

Named for a benevolent goddess at birth, Serra fulfilled the prophecy of that goddess's coming. As a planeswalker, she embodies white mana and helps whole civilizations develop while both directly and indirectly inspiring countless individuals to be steadfast and strong in the service of light.





「最もよく叶う願いは、自らの運命を選択したいという願いだ。」
What goes into the vivipods never quite matches what comes out.
They feed on the living to stay undead.

Kaysa speaks as the Elder Druid, but the Yavimaya recognizes only one voice: its own.
"If you wish for blessings, mortal, ask your demon masters. We've given enough to your kind."
Drownyard floods and unnatural frost made the once peaceful boardwalk deceptively treacherous.
"We lost respect after the battle for Barbu Rooftop. Send the troops to mingle respectfully with the citizens."
—Commander Yaszen of Boros
"While, like a ghastly rapid river,
Through the pale door,
A hideous throng rush out forever,
And laugh—but smile no more."
—Edgar Allan Poe, "The Haunted Palace"
"It is our duty to endure."
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
Cleansing the world, one breath at a time.
Every young leonin wishes to become a skyhunter, for they soar closest to the suns.

No one knows when the tournament began. All they know is that it will never end.
"The second stage of the illness: high fever and severe infectiousness."
—Phyrexian progress notes
Liu Bei lost many men at the battle of Runan because of his lack of strategy. It wasn't until he met Kongming that he began to truly succeed as a leader.
Once a center for knowledge, Sea Gate now serves as a reminder of what was lost.
"Thorn bushes spring up wherever the army has passed. Lean years follow in the wake of a great war."
—Lao Tzu, *Tao Te Ching*, trans. Feng and English
Urza saw the wall and realized that even if he tore every Phyrexian to pieces, they would still resist him.

"To conquer is to eat."
—Edicts of Ilagra
Linger on death's door and risk being invited in.



"All the knowledge of Lat-Nam could not protect its sages from the Brothers' War."
—Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen



"They say only the good die young. Obviously, you are one of the exceptions."
—Delrobah, cleric of Ivora Gate
"Yeah, they're ugly, they desert in droves, and their personal habits are enough to make you sick. But I'll say this for Orcs: they make great spies."
—Ivra Jursdotter


Devils are demons' unearthly desires made flesh. Let loose on the world, they satisfy their mad craving for destruction in a whirlwind of chaos.
Oketra's closest viziers are known as her chosen, though others may have a better claim to that moniker.





"Only the Ancestor should be revered."
—Mystic heretic
In times of conflict, the philosophers of Meletis trade their podiums for conveyances of war.

"We do not suddenly fall on death, but advance towards it by slight degrees; we die every day."
—Seneca, *Epistles*, trans. Gummere

"Let's do it again!"
—Squee, goblin cabin hand

"These benighted worlds are thick with ignorance. I will educate them. They will listen, or they will die."
The kor send their thopter kites to see if the land is in a welcoming mood.
It's raining rats and moggs.


Remade by Eldrazi magic, Tuktuk inspired an entire clan of misguided goblins.


"Each day there are new reports of homes along Getander Pass and Hofsaddel falling to vampires of a more savage nature. I've even heard tell that Anje Falkenrath has returned. Please send whatever help you can."
—Sterin Gorn, letter to Thalia

The irritable drakes are solitary nesters. Even brooding females barely contain the urge to attack their own young.



"Kind of a glorified house cat, don't you think? Cool tattoos, though."
—Crocodile Jackson, legendary cowboy

Its footfalls cause violent earthquakes, hurtling boulders, and unseasonable dust storms.

The smallest seed of regret can bloom into redemption.
The pie was outstanding. The cobbler tasted like shoes.

The militia formed up in the central plaza awaiting the onslaught, but the giants never quite made it.

"Rulers come and go, but my allegiance belongs to the throne."
"Hey Glaxxar, did you remember to seal the vents on the seat belt control module?"
—Truss, chief engineer

"The best foresight is hindsight."
—Empress Llawan



Those who try to rob the Obscura often leave behind more than they take away.

The devout sacrifice themselves to it hoping for escape from their debts to the guild, but many end up owing in the afterlife.
Discipline wears many robes.
"A whole skin is worth a thousand victories."
—Orcish veteran of the Battle of Montford
"If that brain can't figure out the secret of the serum, then add more brains."
—Rhmir, Hand of the Augur
The best presents are impossible to regift.
To treat flesh wounds, use earth. To treat earth wounds, use flesh.
—Barbarian saying

Magic is the name of the game.
"The Tenth is under heavy attack, but it's being handled. I sent Mileva."
—Tajic

"Through the haze of battle I saw the glint of sun on golden mane, the sheen of glory clad in mail, and I dropped my sword and wept at the idiocy of war."
—Dravin, Gruul deserter

Amid this whirling hurricane of blades, there is no calm eye in which the hapless can find shelter.
"I felt the ground shake, so I hid in my tent until the earthquake passed. It passed all right, and it left hoofprints."
—Femeref explorer


"Our lances' reach had been our saving grace in our fight against the hive. Now even that advantage is taken from us."
—Adom Capashen, Benalish knight
"My 'condition' is a trial. The weak are consumed by it. The strong transcend it."
—Sorin Markov


The quickest way to get through the jungle is to agitate a rhino and run in its wake.
As insubstantial, and as powerful, as the wind that carries it.
After lightning struck the cliffs, the ore became iron, the iron became steel, and the steel became greaves. The lightning never left.

"It hurts more if you think about it."
—Hooks, Cabal torturer

Her bold movements are anchored in the careful precision of each rope.

Shamans of Kar-Sengir claim that their sun sets because it can no longer bear the gaze of those pain-carved cliffs.
Who knew an 8˝ by 10˝ could feel like a 2˝ by 4˝?
"I offered you eternal life; I just didn't say *where*."
—Shauku, Endbringer



"Folklore has it that to capture a Mountain Goat is a sign of divine blessing. I just know it's a sign that dinner is on the way."
—Klazina Jansdotter, Leader of the Order of the Sacred Torch
Although the door is flimsy and the lock pathetically small, Josuri's family never fears the night outside.
"A single grain of sand is insignificant, but a sandstorm can reduce pyramids to dust. Stand with your crop. Become the storm."
—Oketra, god of solidarity

"The land is weary. Even Skyshroud is depleted. We must find another source of mana—one that is growing despite our withering world."
—Freyalise
The son of Gerrard's surrogate father, Sidar Kondo, Volrath stole Gerrard's Legacy and rose to power selling it off piece by piece. Now, he is an evincar, or agent, of the Lord of the Wastes. Armed with exceptional magical powers, he plots to conquer the entire multiverse.
While the smell of burning flesh is common in Grixis, the odor of smoldering brain matter is a rare treat.
All the books were dusty with disuse, save the one titled *Camouflage and Its Practical Applications*.
It heralded Sarkhan's return to Tarkir's present.
The dense jungle surrenders to a lush and lavish expanse. At its center uncoil the spires of Qarsi Palace.

The sparkmage shrieked, calling on the rage of the storms of his youth. To his surprise, the sky responded with a fierce energy he'd never thought to see again.
Below the great river, a bustling hub channels the flow of merrow trade.
With each honor he earns, Gideon paves the path to his redemption.
"Gotcha."
If you're lucky, the centaurs will give a single warning to leave their territory before driving a spear into you. If you're unlucky, the spear is the warning.
The forest rose to the battle, not to save the people but to save itself.
It promises protection to those in need and proclaims a warning to any who would threaten Ravnican law.
"The forges consumed all and still screamed for more."
—*The Antiquities War*
"None appreciate sun and shallows like those who have seen the depths."
—Lianda of the Stonybrook school

Some spellcrafting mistakes go on to become spells of their own.
"Fear is a rational response, but waiting won't make it any easier. Just jump!"
"In these halls there is no pass or fail. Your true test comes with the first full moon."







It desires only to help others shed the itchy wet skin of life.
"At this rate," said Sisay, "the next kavu we see will have wings."


"It wags its tail when it's happy. It wags its tail when it's angry. Nope, there's no good time to be around a whiptail."
—Rugar, Leaguehall Infirmary patient

Conjured from the bowels of hell, the fiery wall forms an impassable barrier, searing the soul of any creature attempting to pass through its terrible bursts of flame.
The nomads' funeral pyres are more practical than ceremonial.


The Gargantikari astroserpent hated the taste of merfolk, but the audience didn't need to know that.
Lumengrid, site of the Knowledge Pool, source of vedalken arcana.
"Don't be silly, grandfather. If the tides were caused by some monster drinking the ocean, wouldn't more ships go missing?"
—Leda, Vodalian Youth

The furnace awaits the next master who would stoke the fires of apocalypse.
They are aberrations who have turned on everything we hold sacred. Let them be cast out."
—Ailheen, Speaker of the Council


"The beasts of the wild are my senses. It is through their eyes that all knowledge shall come to me."



The desert is a voracious beast, devouring both flesh and stone.




"Limitless power is glorious until you gain limitless understanding."
—Ixidor, reality sculptor



"It's the perfect sentry. Those who should pass can go right through it."
—Teferi
Goblin cavalry tactics consist of pointing a beast in a direction and hanging on for as long as possible.

Fortunately, Hill Giants have large blind spots in which a human can easily hide. Unfortunately, these blind spots are beneath the bottoms of their feet.
Though lifeless, the skull still possessed a strange power over the flow of magic.

Deserted, but not uninhabited.

"If it's broke, I'll fix it. If it isn't broke, I'll break it, and then I'll fix it again!"

"I might almost pity my enemies—if it wasn't so amusing to watch them die."

"Nobody's seen the Lady of Videns for years. Poor dear, no companions at all in that old castle."
—Yonda of Gavony
The song of the Worldsoul can take on life in the most unlikely places.
The flaming fist of Boros holds the promise of both protection and destruction in its grasp.


"Feeding a normal army is a problem of logistics. With zombies, it is an asset. Feeding is why they fight. Feeding is why they are feared."
—Jadar, ghoulcaller of Nephalia






As the druids had devoted their lives to preserving Dominaria, so did they devote their deaths.

Power begets power.
"I dreamt of it once. Now I fear it dreams of me."
—Tolarian scholar
Countless knights of Garenbrig owe their lives to his peerless craftsmanship.

"Blood is foul, the flesh dross. My ascendance thirsts for life itself."
—Crovax
Unfettered by allegiance, driven by war.
After years of training, the Druid becomes one with nature, drawing power from the land and returning it when needed.
For extra style points, spin them.
"These kids today with their collector numbers and their newfangled tap symbol. Twenty Black Lotuses and twenty Plague Rats. Now that's *real* Magic."
As the Simic released more of their krasis experiments, they required new habitats, always at the expense of the locals.
Successful battles start with knowing who's worth fighting.
Simic's strength comes from its diversity.


"I'm not nearly as bothered by being outnumbered as I am by their foul stench."


"They come because I call. They stay because I listen."



Automaton inspectors ensure that the Consulate's stringent standards for mass production are upheld.

"The folk of the Karplusan Mountains are impossible to ambush."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
"Why cling to these trappings? They are but tools and affectations. True wealth can be possessed only in the afterlife."
It spilled the blood of one elder dragon. In Gideon's hands, it may yet taste another's.
Those who expect betrayal at every turn are seldom disappointed.
"I can't believe they expect me to fight with this rabble. A Goblin in a big mask sends 'em running for cover."
—Avram Garrisson, Leader of the Knights of Stromgald
When Urza's war machines became too costly, Tawnos's weaponry replaced them.
A pegasus chooses its rider, bearing the worthy into the clouds and tossing all others to the ground.

It glides over the landscape. It also happens to be one.
Most human scholars believe that Merfolk are the survivors of sunken Atlantis, humans adapted to the water. Merfolk, however, believe that humans sprang forth from Merfolk who adapted themselves in order to explore their last frontier.

It dodges waves of water to prepare for waves of magic.
"Deep devourer concealed in darkhome
Shrouded it seeks all becomes fodder
Once we swam alone and asea
But no more."
—*Rootwater Saga*
"The blademaster turned his fury to his new foes: root rot and cabbage slugs."
—*Myths and Miracles, Vol. VII*



Pass me from soul to soul / soldier to herder, herder to beast, beast to soil / until I am everywhere. / Then pass me those souls.
—Totem inscription (translated)
"Auntie Grub had caught a goat, a bleating doe that still squirmed in her arms. At the same time, her warren decided to share with her a sensory greeting of hot tar . . . ."
—A tale of Auntie Grub
"I found a new toy. Wanna play?"







"Sure, I've seen agents of the Cabal here and there. Well, not here, and certainly not in any of the sliver labs. Oh dear, I've said too much."
—Apprentice researcher
"What cannot be destroyed will be bound."
—Oath of Avacyn




It teaches *you* to play dead.
"Well, how could I know they'd explode?"
—Gregel, township militia
Taj-Nar, throne of Raksha Golden Cub, destined leader of the leonin prides.


"Consider yourself lucky. Not everyone is granted the gift of *compleation*."
Havoc is a small price to pay for data.
"Until the Rebellion, thrulls served their masters faithfully—even at the cost of their own lives."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. II*

It would be unfortunate if the key fell into the wrong hands.
Forged by divine hands to wander mortal realms.


The competition is but one aspect of the spectacle.
"I have wept such a torrent as to scour the land clean."
—Mu Yanling
Some vampires resorted to corpse trading after cathars burned their estates and drove them from their ancestral feeding grounds.
A flame-kin is always formidable, but feeding its fire with a sorcerous gift grants it the power to devastate armies.
"Aether is the soul of Kaladesh, and all souls should be free."

Urza always put Tocasia's lessons on resource-gathering to effective use.
Legends say a djinn gave the goblins a gift they could never hope to master.
"Geralf's prowess continues to grow. He can now replicate my own creations with near-perfect accuracy."
—Ludevic's laboratory notes


Bright as a mirror, dark as the sea.




"And through the drifts the snowy cliffs/ Did send a dismal sheen:/ Nor shapes of men nor beasts we ken—/ The ice was all between."/
—Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"

Like a meteor, it strikes from above without warning. Unlike a meteor, it then carries you off and eats you.
There are things beneath the murk for whom the bog is a stew, a thin broth in need of meat.
"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim."
—Sisay

With great power comes great risk of getting yourself killed.
He scowls at his imperfect creation, then crushes it to scrap. He salvages the etherium and begins anew.
To secure a place in Phyrexia's ranks, they hunted their surviving kin.

A regular guest at the Royal Masquerade, Arien is the envy of the Court. She appears in a new costume every hour.

"I don't know where my destiny lies, but I know it isn't here."



"And the ignorant shall fall to the squirrels."
—Chip 2:54
"The more secrets you have, the more easily you become my pawn."

A rare find, suitable for the most discerning collector.




". . . Jiang Wei alone still strove with might and main: / Nine times more he fought the north—in vain. . . ."
He heard stars and saw thunder.
The residents of Embraal were never known for finesse, just for getting things done.

Changeling magic grants unusual wishes.


"What cannot be destroyed will be bound."
—Oath of Avacyn
In its attempts to mirror Tzeentch's convoluted scheming, the Crystal Labyrinth constantly shifts and rearranges itself.
Rakdos festivals almost leave enough rubble in their wake to hide the bodies.

To a goblin, value is based on the four S's: shiny, stabby, smelly, and super smelly.

Sometimes the smallest nuisance can be the greatest pain.
"Aw, he's just a silly, dirty little man. What's to be afraid of?"


"Guilty."

Hunters in the primeval wetlands become fluent in reading the ripples to tell when to pursue and when to flee.
"Nothing will cool the fire in their blood. They are too far gone. We must keep them away from our towns at any cost."
—Cosper Lowe of the Silbern Guard
Nicol Bolas doesn't distinguish between servants and victims.
Dawn's Light, greatest palace of Gilt-Leaf Wood, is built on tiers of wood and power.
"Every Silumgar blade carries the blessing of our dragonlord."
—Xathi the Infallible
"As the storm waves crushed my sailors, I cried out to Thassa. The next time I saw them, hard shells encased them, and they swam away to safety."
—Siona, captain of the *Pyleas*




The flowstone seemed for a moment to assume Greven's rage—it lunged like a wild beast at the *Weatherlight*.

"Comin' through!" Designed by James Ernest

If they succeed in their holy work, their order will vanish into welcome obscurity, for there will be no more souls to redeem.
"Fractals are just pseudo-dimensional manifestations of asynchronous biosymmetries. It's really quite simple."
—Kianne, Quandrix dean

"Death is not a debt I am yet willing to pay."
—Purraj of Urborg

"If survival is a game, I've seen the winner."
—Hazir, Sejiri cartographer




"Our enemies have breached our realm. To survive, the clans must fight as one!"



The magic used by Kessigers is known for its practical applications.

The ultimate treasure is one that guards itself.
To bear the shield of the pariah is the highest honor a Boros can receive—and the last.

Their feeding habits leave them with gizzards full of tumbled gems.
"Whereas I was created to protect, the biskelion was created to destroy."
—Karn, silver golem
"Within this grove, you belong to me."
"Ixalli's fertile rays enliven us all. Each of us is a testament to the sun's strength and love."
—Chitlati, Lightning Rider

"I might have overfed him."
—Gulistan, Simic biomancer
"Raw energy contains infinite possibility."
—Urza
"I would gladly give my life if it would inspire my clan to victory."
The earth cannot hold that which magic commands.
"Phirax of Blood Ridge has sent a war giant at us? What, do I have to spell it out for you? Kill the giant, scoop out its skull, and drive it back to Blood Ridge. Honestly, what kind of necromancer minions are you?"
—Keren-Dur, necromancer lord

"Some have said there is no subtlety to destruction. You know what? They're dead."
—Jaya Ballard, task mage
Born like a Phoenix from the Flame, But neither Bulk nor Shape the same.
—Jonathan Swift, "Vanbrug's House"
The revelry ends when the supply of fresh ingenues runs dry.
"The continual rise of the downtrodden is as inevitable as vines usurping a forest."
—Vraska
"Words of power never disappear. They sleep, awaiting those with the will to rouse them."
"A rare and fascinating phenomenon."
—Tamiyo
"The suffering of others is not my concern."
Empires rise and fall, but evil is eternal.

A spike and a maul are needed to crack their shells, but the taste is worth the effort.
"The elements understand better than anyone that actions speak louder than words."
—Gideon Jura

"Time flows as the rivers do, toward an unknown sea. The wise know to look downstream."

As the Phyrexian contagion corroded Karn's body, the praetors whispered psalms to corrupt his mind.


One thing's for sure—his fists are harder than your skull.

Up and down,
over and through,
back around—
the joke's on you.
He lurks in the undercity, eager for the corpse haulers to unload their rotting cargo.
"Like ribbons of wind and wisdom the coatls fly, twisting mystery into truth, shaping the clouds to suit their inscrutable will."
@-Huatli
"It's contemplative, resourceful, and original. Everything else aside, it's the perfect student."
—Naban, dean of iteration


The assassin sees only throats and hears only heartbeats.
Initiates need worry only about the trials. Everything else is in the hands of the gods.

"This old ship has seen a lot, but she's not done yet."

With no flesh to tire or resolve to falter, the machines soon became the Academy's preferred trainers.


"Um, technically you can't 'drop' in space. What you—AIIIIEEEEEEE!"

A blazing light to drive out the shadows.
Nature's strength outlives the strong.
"In these halls there is no pass or fail. Your true test comes with the first full moon."
The light in the woods just before dawn reveals a glimmering network of branches, roots, and spiderwebs. The acolytes of Kruphix walk this lattice unseen.

"I am very much in the mood to start handing out expulsions."
It's easy to believe you're a god when you're twice as powerful as everyone else.
"And through the drifts the snowy cliffs/ Did send a dismal sheen:/ Nor shapes of men nor beasts we ken—/ The ice was all between."/
—Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
Someone had stolen his cushion. When he found the perpetrator, he would feed them to the crocodiles.
Blink dogs protect the wild places of the world, driving away evil influences.
After lightning struck the cliffs, the ore became iron, the iron became steel, and the steel became greaves. The lightning never left.
"If you've never feasted on Zagoth terror-pig, I got the best price you'll find."





Its blood is life. Its body is growth.
"We are one with the wild things. Life blooms from our fingertips and nature responds to our summons."
@-Jade creed


"Make sure he's pointed in the right direction before you light him. And don't let the goblins anywhere near the torch."
—Kerai Suddenblade, Mardu hordechief
Members of the Order often played the Hymn on instruments made from their victims' bones.
Solitude drove the old hermit insane. Now he only keeps company with those he can catch.
A king's knowledge does not vanish when the heart stops beating.
"I don't like to speak ill of 'walkers . . . but just what did Teferi think he was doing?"
—Ertai, wizard adept
If you want to wreak havoc above, sometimes it's best to look below.
In with the old, out with the new.
It's no coincidence that the oldest trolls are also the angriest.
From rebellion against the Akoum Skyclave to fighting the Eldrazi titans, the dragon-riding Kargan tribes have never missed an opportunity to defy the odds.
"My brain hurts."

"I've raised her since she was a pup, and she's raised me since I was a recruit."

An Atarka dragon's exhale cooks what its inhale consumes.





To reach the ravine of the Wanderbrine River, they were told to take the shortcut "through the mountains." They took the directions literally.
Do not disturb.

"Grief and rage and nightmares fade
Where hope and comfort make their stand."
—*Lament for Bala Ged*, stanza 4
"'Invincible' is just a word."
—Gideon Jura
Rumors quickly spread among thieves about a labyrinth without walls and a prize beyond all measures of worth.


After the attack on the Vantoleone, the fragile balance of power shattered completely, and the city descended into chaos.

Good bodyguards are hard to find, mainly because they don't live long.




"Those wings are no advantage. I will pin them to the ceiling of the Hekma."

Devils redecorate every room with fire.


In the Gudul delta, bloodfly bites are indistinguishable from spear wounds.
"So many corpses, so little time."


"There are some qualities, some incorporate things, / That have a double life, which thus is made / A type of twin entity which springs / From matter and light, evinced in solid and shade."
—Edgar Allan Poe, "Silence"

"You never know what day might be your last."

After Kroog was destroyed while most of its defenders were at his side, Urza vowed that none of his allies would ever need to fear for their own defense again, even while laying siege to a city far from their homes.

Quick and agile, Amrou Kithkin can usually escape from even the most fearsome opponents.
"We train for the improbable, like lightning striking the same place twice, or striking everywhere at once."
—Nundari, Sea Gate militia captain


"Do not let yourselves fall now. Zendikar is depending on us-on you!"
"Where moments before we were lost beyond hope, the strange, floating lights showed us the way and restored our morale."
—Vervamon the Elder


The settlement's defenders were glad to have such a massive, ferocious creature join the fight—but less glad to see it flatten their homes along the way.
No one is happy when they notice a tiger.



The kavu evolved for centuries deep inside Dominaria, and some can draw from its strength.
"Civilization is a conspiracy to disguise the mutilation of nature."
—Skyshroud elite creed

"'War is no picnic,' my father liked to say. But the Ants seemed to disagree." —*General Chanek Valteroth*
"That slowly decreasing pulse—that's the beat I waltz to."

Designed for maximum impact, comedic and otherwise.
They're trained in the art of pressing their luck.

"The curse is broken."




Survival of the purest.

"Drink this, brother. It will bring you rest."
—Liliana Vess
Icatia's once peaceful towns faced increasing attacks from Orcs and Goblins as the climate cooled. By the time the empire fell, they were little more than armed camps.

"They can't follow your footprints if you never touch the ground."



"I told him it was just a flesh wound, but the next time I looked at him, poor Tadhg was dead and gone."
—Maeveen O'Donagh,
*Memoirs of a Soldier*


In war, the best leaders are open to all tactics.
The wave of lava seared cloth from skin, skin from flesh, and flesh from bone.
"Now, *that's* a zombie!"
—Modriss of Zargoth Fen



"So much wealth. So much splendor. So much temptation to believe the gilded lie."
—Kaya
"I do not teach. I simply reveal."
—Daudi, Femeref tutor

Urza studied the creations of the Thran not simply to learn from them, but to surpass them.



It has to deliberate a moment on the best way to break your face.
"So much wealth. So much splendor. So much temptation to believe the gilded lie."
—Kaya
The elves had the edge in guile, skill, and valor. But in the end, only sheer numbers mattered.

You're driven not by a lust for gold or baubles, but by the thrill of danger and the excitement of the unknown.

"The fortress is not what it seems."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"Patience, mage. Killing you now would be too easy."

Battles are won in nuance.

"Death is no excuse for disobedience."
—Liliana Vess

In the wretched depths of the Grand Coliseum, his soul shines like a single torch blazing in the night.

It sees shaped stone and carved wood as mutilations.

Little agonies pave the way to greater power.

Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.
The aberrant magic of the Rimewind drew the unicorns back from the northern wastes to do battle once again.


The Kor forsake roots for the winding of the path; forsake voices for the silence of the mind; forsake all else for the poverty of isolation.

Her hand gently beckons, she whispers your name—
But those who go with her are never the same.




"Werewolves leave messy trails. Easy to follow. Hard to forget."
"Even the threat of power has power."
—Jeska, warrior adept





Wells that provide clean, unhaunted water are rare enough to be worth building an entire town around.

「侵略の血まみれの喧騒が消え
そして再び静かな歌が森の中に鳴り響く。」
—-「フレイアリーズの歌」
From every kill, a gruesome trophy.


There's little more demeaning than getting your butt kicked by a bunch of bunnies.
"Of course it will grow beyond control—it was designed to choose its own evolution."
—Momir Vig


"Stop bleeding. It's distracting."
—Astarion, the Decadent

"Sometimes the only difference between a martyr and a hero is a sword."
—Captain Sisay, *Memoirs*
"And topples round the dreary west A looming bastion fringed with fire."
—Alfred, Lord Tennyson, "In Memoriam"

"Springjacks and faeries can be difficult to hunt, but my favorite prey are the flamekin. They never fail to put up a worthy fight when cornered."
Scholars had puzzled for centuries over the ruins at Tal Terig. Its secrets had always lived within one rune-carved head.

Imitation is the sincerest form of piracy.


"The day of Spirits; my soul's calm retreat / Which none disturb!"
—Henry Vaughan, "The Night"


"Change your mind, or I'll change it for you."
"The victim was either clawed to death or struck by lightning. Possibly both."
—Pel Javya, Wojek investigator
The welcoming appearance of the Arrow Bamboo Forest masks its deathly hostility.

Destiny exalts a chosen few, but even heroes break.
"Amazing, isn't it, what humans will throw away when they're drowning?"
As a young student, she dusted the shelves of Tolaria's great library. Now, she writes the books that line them.


"Priests, hunters, slayers—to arms! The enemy approaches!"



"'O miserable of happy! Is this the end Of this new glorious world . . . ?'"
—John Milton, Paradise Lost



To become king of the Goblins, one must assassinate the previous king. Thus, only the most foolish seek positions of leadership.
"Life grows everywhere. My kin merely find those places where it grows strongest."
—Nissa Revane



"Wealth is a good thing, compared to poverty—your food is better, your robes are softer, and your companions have bathed more recently."
—Kipkemboi, Kukemssa pirate
A hollow dog is never empty. It is filled with thirst for the hunt.


Cinder pyromancers measure their success by counting their enemies' smoking holes.

"Still, the pterodon chasing the clouds from its skies must bow to the great forest below."
—Mahuiz, Sun Empire archer






The price of prophecy is a vacant eye socket.



"Stensia blazes with new heat. Nephalia's tides are chaotic. And everywhere, this unnatural frost. The land is sending a warning."
—Katilda, Dawnhart Prime

Brute force wins the battles. Conviction wins the wars.
"The path of the stars is as reliable as the instruments that measure them."

From Gaea grew the world, and the world was silent. From Gaea grew the world's elves, and the world was silent no more.
—Elvish teaching
"Even rats hoard their treasures. Are your precious things so different?"
—Izoni
The banner symbolizes the goodwill of the Brighthearth. Their emissaries bring the mastery of fire to other races.


Loose earth is not a burial but an appetizer.
"Sometimes, students, rite makes might."
—Mother Luti

Visiting a shrine at the start of a journey makes the traveler more likely to finish it.

"Die. But die knowing that your pathetic life will yield a great bounty for me."
—Zul Ashur, lich lord

Protection is woven into every vine and branch.

Once he'd worked out which end of the thing was sharp, he was promoted to guard duty.
"What is mana but possibility, an idea not yet given form?"
—Jhoira, master artificer
"There's a hole in your plan."
—Noyan Dar, Tazeem lullmage





Seafarers fear sailing off the world's edge not so much as down its gullet.
"The stars mark your destiny. May you accept the fate thus divulged."

Rakshasa offer deals that sound advantageous to those who forget who they are dealing with.
She will not touch a weapon, yet she is the greatest protector her people have ever known.

The collection didn't have room to expand, so the wizard improvised a solution.
After a hundred failed experiments, Urza was stunned to find that common silver passed through the portal undamaged. He immediately designed a golem made of the metal.

"Into its maw went the seventh sea, never to be seen again while the world remains."
—Esper fable
By the fourth funeral, the mooks had gotten pretty good at them.
"We must all make sacrifices for the good of Innistrad."
—Sorin Markov

"I specialize in missing manuscripts, pilfered poetry, and lifted letters."
Ogre shamans must be bright enough to learn their invocations and dim enough to use them.




Giants believe that tossing redcaps at knights is the best way to deal with both.
Even within the chapel's hallowed halls, the devils' laughter pierced his prayers.
"The filthy towns of Kjeldor are no place for anyone to live. Fyndhorn is our home now."
—Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order


"Her voice is the wilderness, savage and pure."
—Kamahl, druid acolyte
After years of training, the Druid becomes one with nature, drawing power from the land and returning it when needed.
"The Lowlands refuse to suffer at the whims of the High City."


"You could die famous or you could die old. I chose old."
—Former soldier
"It is fascinating to see how the people of this plane replicate magical techniques without a natural gift. Also frustrating."
—Jace Beleren
Once a griffin sentinel adopts a territory as its own, only death can force it to betray its post.

"Your precious laws can't save you now!"
Saltfield nomads call a sudden storm a "whitemane."


"Command is the act of balancing on a vine and convincing others that it is firm ground."
—Sidar Jabari
Those who only believe themselves infected with lycanthropy can be as dangerous as those who really are.
Each eye sees a different possibility for tomorrow.

On Naya, ambition and treachery are scarce, hunted nearly to extinction by the awe owed to terrestrial gods.


Sometimes those with the most sin cast the first stones.
By hammer forged, and by hammer undone.



"There is no age at which you stop learning."


"The lion drank that lake right up! In thanks, he gave Siti the power to speak with lions and make them leave the goats alone."
—Afari, *Tales*
The helix was the finest example of Mishra's campaign strategy: if he couldn't have Argoth, no one could.


"The bird wore the form of a man, bereft of filigree. Why do the Texts not speak of it?"
—Belator of Esper





"Choices belong to those with the luxuries of time and distance. We have neither. I recommend we proceed with the plan to destroy all shrines of the kami."
—Lady Azami, letter to Sensei Hisoka
"A traditional lance is fine for the Burning Yard, but in the wilds you need a nastier bite."
—Kenver, Embereth weaponsmith



A clique can cause far more mischief than one faerie on its own.

Through blood and battle, scouts are forged from raw recruits into the Imperium's finest.



"If it didn't hurt, how would I know it worked?"

Grixis is a world where the only things found in abundance are death and decay. Corpses, whole or in part, are the standard currency among necromancers and demons.
"Look how they beg for the knife! The Demonlord has trained them well."

"Zendikar will fight until it has bled its last."



It manifests at wizard academies to siphon inspiration from young prodigies.
"My specialty is theoretical universal limits and ways to circumvent them."
"I do as I choose with what is mine. And it is all mine."
—Nicol Bolas

Only a madman could create such a door. Only an imbecile would open it.

Others try to be the best in their class. She strives to be the best in her phylum.

"And Muzzio says my arguments have no teeth."
—Selvala, ranger of the Lowlands
Ice may thaw, but malice never does.


"Approach my tower on bended knee or depart from it as ash upon the wind."
@-Gadwick, the Wizened
Make your judgment wisely: The right pack will let you defeat your nemesis, but a poor choice can only end in torment. And *Homelands*.
"Looks like we're completely outnumbered."
"Lucky for us. I thought we'd be bored."


The faces of Geth's corpse-dredgers are disturbingly similar.
What the show lacks in historical accuracy, it makes up for in awesome submission holds.
Flash like daybreak to the fray.
—Motto of the Knights of Dawn


"These rains cannot quench; they carve the land's face like a scalpel on flesh."
—Crovax
Her connection to the gargantuans puts her in line to become Anima, a sacred but daunting duty.
Tempered by fire and united in virtue, the knights of Ardenvale fight with a single, unbreakable will.

Those who love the woods only wish to spread its majesty.


The Roil takes many forms. It also takes many victims.



They were formidable even before they learned the use of weapons.


"Mindlessness is not weakness. When we are lost to hunger we are unstoppable."
—Drana, Kalastria bloodchief
Which is more unsettling: the roar of battle or the silence that follows?
Though Heliod turned against humanity in his hunger for power, the ideals he once championed still stand strong.


"Let's play 'sled.' Here's how it works: you're the sled."


Awylla tried hard to forget the horrors she had seen, but someone else had developed a keen interest in them.

"What was once formed by masons, shaped by smiths, or given life by mages, I will return to the embrace of the earth."
Noted neither for their good looks nor their charm, Manticores can be fearsome allies. As dinner companions, however, they are best left alone.


Part feline, part primate, all trouble.


Administrator of the military state of Sheoltun, Tobias is the military right arm of the empire and the figurehead of its freedom.
An angel's touch can prepare a soldier for battle more than a thousand military drills.


No ripples, no splashes, no warning.

It's hard to argue with a force made of divine will.
Hail from Tolaria the ever changing 'Dane.
"My flesh holds no secrets, monster. The spirit of Mirrodin will fight on."
—Vy Covalt, Mirran resistance

"This can't be Jamuraa. We could not have failed her this badly . . . ."

You have traveled to many places, over mountains and across seas, but a new journey always calls.
Jund is a world as cruel as those who call it home. Their brutal struggles scar the land even as it carves them in its image, a vicious circle spiraling out of control.


"From the snowy slopes of Kaelor, To the canyons of Bandu, We drink and fight and feast and die As we were born to do."
—Balduvian tavern song

"The seedling you save today may be the sheltering boughs of generations to come."

The municipal senate makes extensive use of the thopters, mostly to gather dirt on rival senators.


The dead entered as worthy. They exited as Eternals.
We live on the serpent's back.
—Viashino saying



"Cosi has many followers. Even the volcano finds a way to do his bidding."
—Zakken, Enclave cleric
"Bolters? Chainswords? All fine weapons, however I wield a far more dangerous power."


The priest cast Xantcha to the ground. "It is defective. We must scrap it."




The soratami surround their sky-castles with living clouds that serve as both sword and shield.
"These bracers were worn by my father and by his mother before him. Boggart fangs have shattered on them. Cinder flames have withered at their touch. While I wear them, the safehold will not fall."

The ogre appealed the match loss and got it downgraded to a warning.

Fortunately, hill giants have large blind spots in which a human can easily hide. Unfortunately, these blind spots are beneath the bottoms of their feet.



"Ugh! When did orcs and fish start having kids?"
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*
"The first birth celebrates life. The second birth mocks it."
—Mystic elder

"By this oath, I pledge to stand by thee, against traitor, beast, or fiend, for only in death does duty end."






"It's like they planted another Bastion right in the middle of the harbor."
—Bes Tavani, Bomat merchant


"I see more than others do because I know where to look."
—Saprazzan vizier
Sometimes the cannoneer must become the cannonball.
"From the mouths of my servants, my voice shall emerge to shake the souls of my foes."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer



"No one hero will save this day. Today we must all be heroes."
—Gideon Jura
Even the landscape turned against Sarsour, first rising up and pelting him, then rearranging itself so he could no longer find his way.
Once they get the scent, there is no escape.

It strides through the whitecover, mists in which even gargantuans can hide.


A job well done means a rest well earned.
Altered by Phyrexian science, corrupted by black mana, and twisted by rage, Ertai still looked in the mirror and saw only glory.

"Until we shed the curse of sentience, we must endure its grotesque handiwork."
—Vorinclex, Voice of Hunger







By the time the Blood Angels descended from the heavens, Phodia was a city transformed. Miles of flesh-filled rivers fed into the central digestion pools and up into the hive fleet above.
"Your blood, your marrow, your spirit—all are mine."
—Mayvar, minion of Geth



"What is this foul presence that defies the sun's cleansing rays?"
—Itzama the Crested
The warriors she leads can rarely keep pace with her, and neither can the tales.

"It's light as a feather, but it hits with the force of a boulder. A very sharp boulder."



She is the apex of the artificer's craft, the spirit of the divine called out of base metal.

"We shall forever roam."
—Ayli, high priest of the Eternal Pilgrims

Not all enormous beasts are quick to anger.
In the case of violent deaths, kami offered a chance for revenge if the deceased offered up its corpse as a host to the invading kami.
Poxwalkers are victims of the Walking Pox, a cruel virulence which rots the infected to death while keeping them conscious.

According to merfolk legend, a denizen of the deep swallows the horizon at the end of each day, bringing on the cold blanket of night.



Art born from such raw emotion often takes on a life of its own.
A stroke of luck can smite an army.
Goblins in the first wave of a fire raid always bemoan the aim of everyone else.
Two taken, two judged, one returned.

"Oh, how I love gold. I'd eat and breathe it if I could."
—Leland, tax collector
To unearth its dinner, it inters itself.

Some blades seek their own wielders.
"Eyes on me!"


Flame chooses its own course.


"He expects a reward, but the only piece of silver he'll get from me is my blade in his gut."
—Shelac, necromancer

"The Boros fight for justice. The Azorius fight for law. I hold the line between, and make sure the people are given both."



"Your death will make a fine tribute for the Lord of Bones."

Every skull has a tale to tell, and a skulkin is many dire tales cobbled together.


"Down in flames" isn't a destination, but a journey.
To the Rakdos, the fun is in the shakedown. The loot is usually discarded.

A head is a needless encumbrance when muscle is all that's required.


"The fever clouds the mind as it energizes the body. Both will pass in time."
—Halvor Arensson, Kjeldoran Priest



When it passes, rainbows follow.
"It is the nature of souls that they burn more brightly together than apart."
—Vessifrus, flamekin demagogue

Born with wings of light and a sword of faith, this heavenly incarnation embodies both fury and purity.
"Send a runner to Tin Street, and tell 'em the delivery has been . . . uh . . . held up."
—Bonmod, caravan rear guard
"No machinations, no puppet strings, no plots. Just pure, sweeping death."
—Tasigur, the Golden Fang
"The hermit dies. The outcast dies. The lone wolf dies. Only those who stick together survive this world."
—Uros, Pendelhaven elder
Cries of anguish quickly spurred cries of action.
Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.




It descended on Estwald like a sudden storm. Moments later, only ashes and agony remained.

One piercing stare usually convinces thieves to go elsewhere.

"Morality is just shorthand for the constraints of being powerless."
—Ob Nixilis




A single molten cord links it to the subterranean furnaces, drawing heat and metal from beneath Kuldotha. Until that bond is cut, it carves a swath of raw destruction.
The first searchlights were given as gifts, symbols of cooperation, to the emissaries present at the signing of the Guildpact.




This matched set incorporates aetheric accelerators and deflection matrices in an elegant, wearable design.


Brimming with power from their disrupted ritual, the Dawnhart witches lashed out at the werewolf intruders.

"Within every angel is a spirit of light that will fight as long as there is darkness."
An audience of one with the malice of thousands.

"You deify nature as female—kind and gentle—yet you cringe at what is natural."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight*
It keeps the upper reaches of the forest free of every menace . . . except for the spider itself.



"Why are we following the goblin? Can he even read that map?"
—Daphne Vail, *Diremore* first mate
"Weaponized jewelry has a long and respected history."
—Ervos Trax

"We decide who is worthy of our works."
—Gix, Yawgmoth praetor

Experience is a good teacher, not a kind one.
"I can ail what cures you."
"Tie a mouse under a bridge, and your cabbages will triple in size."
—Kithkin superstition
"Flee all you like. The further you run the more firmly I feel your heartbeat."
Depending on your point of view, the seal represents a proud guardian of the natural cycle or one who has sold her soul to darkness for eternal life.
After Gideon cleansed the Ninth District, none of the ganglords challenged the Boros.
"A gargoyle's meat can be carved with an ordinary cleaver, but for its petrous hide . . ."
—Asmoranomardicadaistinaculdacar, *The Underworld Cookbook*
"We shall oppose Lim-Dûl and his forces by any means necessary, even if the very earth be torn asunder."
—Arna Kennerüd, Skyknight

Generations of genetic weeding have given rise to the deviously cowardly Ironclaw clan. To say that Orcs in general are vicious, depraved, and ignoble does not do justice to the Ironclaw.
"Let the vampires join us. In this war, we no longer have the luxury of choosing our comrades."
—General Tazri, allied commander

There is no height above Grixis that is free from the stench of death.

"I got it! I got it! I—"


When the Talruum began to play, the dragons fell from the sky to squash the obnoxious noise.
Every hero's journey starts somewhere.
"Wasted potential surrounds us. Lend me that bauble, and let me see what it can be made to be."
Though Gideon arrived at Sea Gate too late to prevent the massacre, he still had enough time to lead its survivors to relative safety.



Life is such a fragile thing.

"The human body—like any other machine—can be stripped for parts."
—Ashnod
Some emeritus professors return from their wanderings periodically to share tales of the mystical wonders of Arcavios.

"The harder you push, the stronger we become."
—Radiant, to Urza



The undisputed master of the mountains of Shiv.


"But it was a year of dearth. People were reduced to eating leaves of jujube trees. Corpses were seen everywhere in the countryside."

The thunderhead that leads in the storm.


"The continual rise of the downtrodden is as inevitable as vines usurping a forest."
—Vraska
"I will fight only the way nature intended—and nature intended us to win."
Blessed by the gods. Coveted by mortals. Beholden to neither.
"We lay our dead to rest in a beautiful bed, in hopes that the Ancestor will think it a fit cradle for the next life."
—Mystic elder
"Within the song of Mat'Selesnya, one becomes all."
—Heruj, Selesnya hierophant
Barrin's pride in his apprentice was diminished somewhat when he had to get the others back down.



"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim."
—Sisay
"I would welcome her into my pack with honor."
—Arlinn Kord
To serve as an Eternal is the afterlife granted to the worthy.


You lie down with rats, and the rats run away.
—Suq'Ata insult
They get along so well with their goats because they're practically goats themselves.


It always has the home-turf advantage.
"Let the brutes fight. If they kill each other, we lose no more soldiers today."
—Orthion, Lavabrink captain
"Stop complaining. You can rest when you're dead. Oh—sorry."
—Liliana Vess
"Your creations are effective, Sheoldred, but we must unite the flesh, not merely flay it."
—Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite


A doom denied—or, perhaps, delayed.

He wished for knowledge, but not for the will to apply it.


Although officials said it was a sewer failure, the people whispered that it was a warning of night's reach.
It wasn't long until the elves had developed a use for every part of the Eldrazi.
"For all I have lost, for all who have fallen, I will render you to dust."
—Jared Carthalion


"Getting people to do what you want is merely a matter of telling them what they want to hear."


"'Carol, blast those aliens.' 'Carol, transport these concessions.' No one cares that today is my birthday."
Above the cries, a phrase rang out: "You will all be saved."
"The dead make good soldiers. They can't disobey orders, they never surrender, and they don't stop fighting when a random body part falls off."
—Nevinyrral, *Necromancer's Handbook*
Blessed by the gods. Coveted by mortals. Beholden to neither.

"It is only fitting that one such as I should die in pursuit of knowledge."
—Vervamon the Elder
"Research is hardly the dry, serious pastime outsiders make it out to be."

"The calming motion of this grubling's ride reminds me of my world's beauty before this mobile astropark obliterated it."
—Ambassador Blorpityblorpboop
"Thraben belongs to the living. I will not rest until it is cleansed."

"Common soldiers can't understand what a sidar knows: the enemy can be a resource."
—Sidar Jabari
"Don't worry. I'm not going to deprive you of all your secrets. Just your most precious one."
—Liliana Vess
It prefers its meals cooked.

For the first time in her life, Vraska tried to prevent death.
Legend has it that Serpents used to be bigger, but how could that be?
The only sound was the gentle clicking of the Faeries' wings. Then those intruders who were still standing turned and fled. One thing was certain: they didn't think the Scryb were very funny anymore.
No one under the four suns can elude the watchful eye of the den-guard.

Under his rule, there is but one creed: Chaos shall reign.
Quicksmiths are eager to jump from one project to the next, relying on flashes of inspiration rather than careful research.


"The cathars killed my skaabs down below. Let's see how high their swords can reach."
—Ludevic, necro-alchemist

I didn't think Mammoths could ever hold a candle to a well-trained battle horse. Then one day I turned my back on a drunken soldier. His blow never landed; Mi'cha flung the brute over ten meters.
"Me? I'm just an innocent bystander!"
"Faith is our greatest protector."
—Halvor Arensson, Kjeldoran Priest


Saltfield nomads call a sudden storm a "whitemane."

It prefers its meals cooked.


Ixidor had only to imagine their ruin and Akroma made it so.
Jenrik's tower is served by those who once sought to enter it uninvited.
"We respect all lifeforms, but this one we respect from a distance."
—Mandor, Selesnya ranger
Merfolk are best known for their subtle magic. But those who try to fight them in their own territory quickly realize that merfolk are hardly defenseless on the field of battle.
A hefty price is no guarantee of quality merchandise.


The mysterious purpose of two of the rings had eluded Esper mages—until now.
Backstabbing is common within demonic cults. So are front- and side-stabbing.
From each seed, a world. From each world, a thousand seeds.
Cast the weight as though it were a die, to see a rival's fate.

Even a fragment of a powerstone contains within it not just energy, but space—vast dimensions trapped in fragile crystal.



"Your first reaction may be to stand very still and hope she didn't see you. Trust me, she did."
—Endril, Kalonian naturalist

A smaller cousin to the dragon, drakes are often seen at the side of powerful wizards who use them as airborne eyes and ears.





From now until the crystals stop glowing
—Ketria oath meaning "forever"
Honesty is the first casualty of war.
"When I trained under Multani, he bade me sit for hours watching Yavimaya's spiders. From them I learned stealth, patience, and the best way to snare a wind drake."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight*
Its back bubbles like a witch's cauldron, and it smells just as vile.
"You claim wisdom, yet I see nothing in here but tawdry wishes."
"The gods here may walk among the people, but they are not with them."
—Gideon Jura
"Graceful? Yes. Beautiful? Absolutely. Harmless? Definitely not."
—Fyndhorn elder
Nothing comes together as easily as it comes apart.

"You call it luck. I call it preparation."
Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.




"Beauty determines value, and we determine beauty."
The living is all it eats.
The nomads' funeral pyres are more practical than ceremonial.



"Never stop 'til you see your lance come out the other side."
—Telim'Tor

Bright as a mirror, dark as the sea.
"Madness can't touch a mind ignited by genius."
The ship's captain promised she'd get you safely to the Netherese ruin, but *she* is the one who just washed overboard.

Imperial samurai who show exceptional honor and dexterity are invited to train as mothriders, elite guards charged with protecting the skies of Eiganjo.
"Yavaimayae necesse mille annis fuit ut illa aluerent, sed modo momentum necesse fuit ut illa pretium probaverent."

"This world will be ruled by its rightful sovereigns, not these hideous pretenders."

Left to itself, nature overflows any container, overthrows any restriction, and overreaches any boundary.



Life is measured in inches. To a healer, every one of those inches is precious.

Scurrid teeth evolved to crack open nuts, but they work just as well for crushing bones if the nest is threatened.

This detailed model allows the edificers to examine the city from every angle.
"It's filthy work, planting them."
—Kifimbo, Shadow Guildmage

A curse is just another name for an unwanted blessing.

The Quicksilver Sea hissed and bubbled at the indignity. The Vulshok shaman just smiled.
"The God-Pharaoh created the Hekma to protect us from the horrors beyond and to surround us in his love."

The wizard who reads a thousand books is powerful. The wizard who memorizes a thousand books is insane.





An angel's blessing prepares a soldier for war better than a thousand military drills.

"The beholder told me I had a good eye for details. Who was I to argue?"



The travelers were warned to watch out for children on the road.




"I believe I've discovered something truly incredible: a way to harness magic through science!"
—Jayce Talis









When a changeling adopts a form no other changeling has taken, a rune appears in the caverns of Velis Vel to mark the event.
Artifact construction required immense resources.
The wolf closed in. But then a strange wind whispered through the leaves, and with a burst of speed, the deer surged forward out of reach.
A sliver shares everything with its hive—even its afflictions.
"Should you a Rat to madness tease Why ev'n a Rat may plague you . . . ."
—Samuel Coleridge, "Recantation"

When all you have is a warhammer, every face looks like a nail.




Goblins can carry their body weight in loot.

The Arbiter is a conduit of justice, a will so disciplined that it dispenses justice without ego or remorse.

They are Phyrexia's couriers; the messages they carry are inscribed on their slick hides.
"Keep going! I'll buy you time!"


"Some say that time is cyclical and that history inevitably repeats. My will is my own. I won't bow to fate."
—Volrath


"One spell to quiet the Roil, one to quash the will. The principle is the same."
"Today, for a lark, let's visit the plains. I'm sure we'll find something to entertain us."


The problem with mercenaries is that if you can buy their loyalty, others can too.


Ramirez DePietro is a most flamboyant pirate. Be careful not to believe his tall tales, especially when you ask his age.
"Soaring is wasted on the winged."
—Edric, Spymaster of Trest

Fortunately, Hill Giants have large blind spots in which a human can easily hide. Unfortunately, these blind spots are beneath the bottoms of their feet.



"May the worthy spend an eternity in Blessed Sleep. May the wicked find the peace of oblivion."

"The veil between the living and the dead is so very thin that the whispers of the ancients can finally be heard."
—Amalric of Midvast Hall
"I am not at liberty to reveal my sources, but I can assure you, the price on your head is high."
"We speak the dragons' language of flame and rage. They speak our language of fury and honor. Together we shall weave a tale of destruction without equal."
"All we know about the Krosan Forest we have learned from those few who made it out alive."
—Elvish refugee
"All matter, animate or not, rots when exposed to time. We merely speed up the process."
—Ezoc, Golgari rot farmer
The golems of the ancient Thran still draw power in ways that baffle the artificers of today.
Sometimes primitive cultures attributed natural phenomena to monsters. Sometimes they were right.






The war cry is not simply a shout but a sacrament.

These machines build fearsome visages out of scrap metal to scare off predators who would otherwise be eager to consume them.

"The sky isn't falling—it's being thrown at us!"
—Otak, Tin Street shopkeep




With enough showmanship, even mundane items like playing cards or molecular teleporters can produce a mesmerizing spectacle.
"Perhaps Goblins are good for something after all."
—Attributed to General Khurzog
Somehow only the third-most dangerous ride in the park.
"Captain, your units are the tip of our spear. There is zero room for failure."
—Jirina Kudro
Phenax is generous with gifts and unforgiving of debts.

It makes the insignificant conspicuous, the repulsive alluring, and the deadly irresistible.






For the necromancer barons, killing and recruitment are one and the same.
"Let's do it again!"
—Squee, goblin cabin hand



"Your pain for my wisdom. You'll get no better deal."



One moment, conscious only of a sense of repose. The next moment, hearing the trudge of his own footsteps. He sighed and squinted into the glare ahead.
The fae know when they're not wanted. That's precisely why they show up.
"My mind has changed. My strength has not."

"The *eludha* is total communication, total understanding. It makes regular human speech feel like garbled grunting."
—Winota, heartbonder
"Why limit yourself to mortal law when you can outlive those who enforce it?"
—Czaric, Orzhov prelate

If a spriggan's eyes are larger than its stomach, it has ways to remedy the situation.
Most refugees left their ancestral homes behind when they came to Otaria. A few decided to bring them along.
"I confer with Death itself. What could you possibly do to injure me?"
—Lord Dralnu
"Hello, my fluttering friends! Isn't it a beautiful day?"


The hammer strikes. The Flame awakens.

"What was once formed by masons, shaped by smiths, or given life by mages, I will return to the embrace of the earth."
Genius is finding the edge of what's possible, then jumping over it.



In a Multiverse of endless possibilities, Aminatou decided to experience all of them.


Trained in the arts of stealth, royal assassins choose their victims carefully, relying on timing and precision rather than brute force.
"Others ask why the Eldrazi destroy. I ask why they preserve."
—Ganda, Goma Fada deserter

Kongming's predecessor helped Liu Bei win the battle of Fancheng by recognizing and defeating Cao Ren's use of the dreaded "Eight Gold Locks" formation.
"Terisia City's fall is inevitable. My master's plan runs as sure and steady as the oil in my veins."

It died with the forest, yet both linger on in twisted form.

"I am not Raksha. I never will be. But I refuse to be the kha who watched her pride be torn asunder."


"No matter how many I kill, there are always more to hunt. It makes me smile just to think about it."


They fight for their home with more loyalty than any conscript.




"Someone must have done something very bad to make a rock that angry."
—Rebel scout

Unlike most warlocks, those who make pacts with archfey are drawn to pranks and whimsy moreso than death and darkness.
You know you've ventured too deep when the rats stop running and hold their ground.
"Since when did 'AIIIEEEE!' become a negotiation tactic?"
—Nikou, Joraga bard

"They think they're winning. But they're just lining up to be dinner."
—Rakka Mar
"Cooked to perfection, of course."

A sludge with a grudge.


"All memory of your existence will be wiped from reality. You will die, and no one will mourn."
—Memnarch
Where the spirit and mortal realms overlap, the laws of reality are rewritten.

"Most wise, most thoughtful, most powerful qadir," said the Gixian, "we offer whatever help we may give in your illustrious name."
Oddly, no one questioned the Cabal's wisdom in hiring a zombie to work at the cemetery.






Mood: A powerful, quirky, curious man.



Each night that his bowl fills, a village mourns.
"Release that which was never caged."
—Spellbomb inscription


"Holiness is not found in a druid's words, or even the rituals of Titania's court. It is found here, in the mud, where Gaea bares her soul, unshackled by ceremony."
Jolrael's choice of homes was far better than her choice of allies.
Street folk call them "spire mice," but behind the mockery is an unspoken envy of the ledgewalkers' skill at avoiding harm.
Many ogres extracted blood oaths from the oni they summoned. Others simply extracted blood.



"I fell to my knees. I called out to Sigarda. And then I saw my tormentors blaze with blessed sunlight."
Kuldotha, wellspring of molten metal, temple of the goblin horde.
The justice of dragons demands more than just an eye for an eye.
Bitter as wormwood, sweet as mulled wine.

"My observations of the Multiverse are too valuable not to preserve for posterity."
—Dovin Baan

"Every act of destruction has a repercussion."
—Karn, silver golem
La sua dieta è composta da frutta, piante, piccoli animali del bosco, grossi animali del bosco, boschi, frutteti, fattorie e piccole città.



Words never uttered by mortals flowed incessantly from its many mouths.
Dinosaurs rarely understand the idea of boundaries between the wild and the urban landscape.
"Greet death with sword in hand."
The best defense is not even knowing what the word "defense" means.

The oil sloshes against his skull as he nears his destination: the Frogtosser Games and the lighting of the Flaming Boggart.

"Kindly steer your fleet clear of the waters west of Scrub Isle. It would be a shame to incinerate such exquisite maritime craftsmanship."
—Commodore Axurik, to Admiral Yelise
Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti Djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.


"Something really special in the baloth category this season, in terms of spike density and quality. We'd like to get a word with the handler, but are unable to locate her at this time."
Its last life is spent tormenting your dreams.

The Order of the Skyward Eye does the bidding of an evil force, unwittingly stirring fear and mistrust across Bant in accordance with his plans.

In the remote corners of Kessig, protection is found in secret powers unknown to the Church of Avacyn.
"You cannot defend others if your own well-being is neglected."
The astropath collapsed, his empty eye sockets aglow. He spoke three words before falling lifeless to the ground: "They . . . are . . . coming!"
"Remember all the great heroes who were careful and never did anything risky? Me neither."
—Syr Carah, the Bold
"The Golgari would say that life comes from death and death comes from life. But sometimes, death comes from the dead."
—Vraska


"I AM FILLED WITH DELICIOUS CANDY. I AM NOT A TRICK."
By the battle of Red Cliffs in the year 208, the Wu kingdom controlled more than 7,000 warships on the Yangtze.

"Four parts molten bronze, yes . . . one part frozen mercury, yes, yes . . . but then what?"

Akki were very territorial, attacking and destroying any settlements that came too close to their mountain homes. The more successful their raids, the bolder they became.
"Frankly, destruction is best left to professionals."
—Jaya Ballard, task mage

First, whispers of ancient days. Then, visions of things to come.



He scorns the heavy winter garb of lesser warriors, trusting his anger to keep him warm.

"Fear not. Your life will not go unlived."
"A richer people could give more but they could never give as much."
The kor send their thopter kites to see if the land is in a welcoming mood.
"Eyes see only what is possible. A trained mind can explore the impossible."
—Kefnet, god of knowledge


"Many have sought my weakness. All have failed."
"At the outset, we weren't aware of Chief Baral's motives for the project. It's now apparent that he intends to use the device to hamper the 'mages' among the ranks of the renegades."
—Consulate engineer's log
Lightning tethers souls to the world.
—Kor saying
When the earth shudders, the sky overflows.


Rumors quickly spread among thieves about a labyrinth without walls and a prize beyond all measures of worth.

If an anurid's lucky, it'll find a warm tunnel for bedtime. If a wurm's lucky, it'll find a warm anurid for breakfast.



Much more painful than mere regret.
The magic of the Guildpact gives aegis to the spirits pressed into its service. Upon entering the afterlife, they find new focus and are charged with defending the Guildpact against those who would see it broken.


Abzan soldiers march to war confident that their Houses march with them.

"The ancient places of Ravnica awaken, stirred by the hoofbeats of Ilharg!"
—Nikya of the Old Ways
"Any hotheaded cub can raise a sword in anger."
The safer outcroppings were already claimed by goblin overachievers.
I didn't think Mammoths could ever hold a candle to a well-trained battle horse. Then one day I turned my back on a drunken soldier. His blow never landed; Mi'cha flung the brute over ten meters.







"Body and spirit are sworn enemies. They will take any excuse to be rid of each other."
—Tariel, Reckoner of Souls
"No more blood shall be spilled to satisfy another's deluded lust for power."



"For what are leaves but countless blades To fight a countless foe on high."
—Elvish hymn
Those with the ability to change their nature survived Phyrexia's biological attacks. Everything else died.

Paulo Vitor Damo da Rosa, World Champion XXVI
The raging behir reared back, opened its terrible maw . . . and collapsed in a fit of horrifying giggles.
"When you hear thunder on a cloudless day, take cover and brace for the coming of the storm herd."
—Skotov, Tin Street basket vendor

"My, how shocking."
—Barrin, Tolarian archmage
"If there is such a thing as too much power, I have not discovered it."
—Volrath
Age wears the flesh but galvanizes the soul.
"Comes right outta th' ground. If ya can smell it, it's too late."
—Keevy Bogsbury


"We guarantee you that within a week, you will feel like a new man."
—Galaxos Klynesmith, biophagus
From Otaria, the sun above meets the sea below at a glittering horizon.




"The plants justify the means."



"Though Serra has not been seen for twenty years, her Gargoyles still watch over our city and punish the guilty."
—Gulsen, Abbey Matron
"For something is amiss or out of place / When mice with wings can wear a human face."
—Theodore Roethke, "The Bat"



"You think I stand alone? I have the forest at my call, the waters at my back. I outnumber you."

"Allow me a moment to catch your breath."

"Spread out, you idiots! Spread out!"
@-Marsden, party leader, last words
Rarely at rest on the Amber Throne, Anafenza always leads the Abzan Houses to battle.

"While we slept, our inferiors infested the worlds that belong to us. Now, we awaken once more."
—Szarekh, the Silent King
All orggs know how to kill; training teaches them *what* to kill.

"I'd build an entire fortress of them if I could."
—Mzali, Lighthouse archmage





Saved from certain death by the kor, he considers himself bound to them by an unbreakable blood oath.
The municipal senate makes extensive use of the thopters, mostly to gather dirt on rival senators.
As the shards merged into the Maelstrom, their mana energies fused into new monstrosities.



The bones of Jund's dead resurfaced in Naya, poisoning the jungle and killing the sunseeders' crops.





"I'm pleased this world has learned the moon affects more than the tides."
—Tamiyo, the Moon Sage

The good news is it's vegetarian. The bad news is it just doesn't like you.

"Any Cadian who can't field-strip their own lasgun by age ten was born on the wrong planet."
—Anonymous

"May you wake to find you were only ever a dream."
—Mephidross curse




"The best skaabs are more powerful and more beautiful than the sum of their parts."
—Stitcher Geralf

"Most faeries are harmless pranksters. Every now and again, though, you get one that crosses over from mischievous to malicious."
—Gaddock Teeg


For the first time in his life, Grakk felt a little warm and fuzzy inside.



Dead or alive, true leaders can inspire an entire army.



2019 Asia Vintage Champion
Though many think of Wolves as solitary predators, they are actually extremely social animals. During a hunt they often call to each other, which can be quite unsettling for their prey.


The tools of invention became the weapons of revolution.

Sea brine for blood, washing foam for laughter.

Nireya reached through the Gate, sensing the energies trapped beyond.

"The bonds of loyalty can tie one to the grave."
—Crovax, ascendant evincar
"All we know about the Krosan Forest we have learned from those few who made it out alive."
—Elvish refugee
"Shame to let good gold go to the grave."
A spark of resistance against a tide of corruption.





"The safest place for you is not now."
Faster than a cobra's bite.
"In my dark moments, I think Urza may have been more of a father to his creations than he ever was to his own son."
—Tawnos


"When the herd moves, so should you."
—Yon Basrel, Oran-Rief survivalist
Most see the Mad Mage as a deranged menace, but you recognize the genius behind his paranoia.
Where high society and dark opportunity intersect.

Emrakul does not grant wishes. Desires simply align to her will.


Its lock changes to fit each key.

"Every choice alters the path of fate."
—Sarkhan Vol

Those who worship the great gargantuans could hardly be expected to fight with a subtle weapon.





It puts the "fur" in "fury."
"Its stones seem to serve a healing function, but removing them intact is an exhausting process."
—Tolarian research notes
Pray her spear reaches you first. Her griffin is less kind.
"Yarok's waters rush and rage
Where armies bled into the sand."
—*Lament for Bala Ged*, stanza 2







Only the warrior who can admit mortal weakness will be bolstered by immortal strength.

When it snared a passing cockatrice, its own soul darkly doubled.
"It's just business. You understand."


It's difficult to outwit something that doesn't speak, strategize, or even think.

No one has properly answered her favorite riddle: "Why should I spare your life?"


"Swords may sunder. Shields may fail. My will is stronger than steel, and my flesh and bone far more deadly."
"The enemy has been destroyed, sir. So have the forest, the city, your palace, your dog . . ."
—Keldon soldier




The Locust God's children were numberless, relentlessly eating away every trace of the city's protection.


To a sabretooth, all men are mice.
As elusive as the footprint of a djinn
—Suq'Ata expression
Two things are needed to survive the harsh skies of Rath: a thick hide and a thicker skull.

"I write upon clean white parchment with a sharp quill and the blood of my students, divining their secrets."
—Shauku, Endbringer




The small are mostly ignored by dragons.
"We have done our best to heal this land together, but now I must entrust the future to my sister. She will carry our dreams onward into the sunrise."
—Michiko Konda's journal
The nomads' funeral pyres are more practical than ceremonial.






"Squall, gale, hurricane—it's all a matter of size . . . and price."

He vowed he would never rest until he reached his destination. He doesn't know how right he was.





Foul-tempered, poorly trained, and mule-stubborn, the drake is the perfect test of the master's will.
Dominaria's most extravagant crypt nevertheless holds an empty grave.


There were no tombstones in orochi territory. Slain warriors were buried with a tree sapling, so they would become a part of the forest after death.

"The sky is my birthright. I dare you to try and take it from me."
Like moonglove's flowers, the greatest beauty often masks the greatest dangers.
"Work with zeal as hammers peal! Melt, anneal, and pound the steel!" —Old Dwarvish forge-chant
The boundary between real and imaginary is as thin as the page, and just as easily torn.

Prismari students dance in the tension between passion and perfection.

Gerrard's final act ensured his legacy would never die.




"We are no longer Nature's children, but her masters . . . ."
—Oath of the Ebon Hand


Some of the eleven minotaur clans of Mirtiin are expert crafters and learned philosophers. Others just like to hit stuff.
Even dragons fear its silken strands.
"Molten earth has no anger of its own. Only by infusing it with your own rage can the magma seethe and take shape."
—Koth of the Hammer
Great literature can transport the reader.

Titania rewards all who honor the forest by making them a living part of it.
"As I desire, so it shall be."
—Nicol Bolas
To renew the land, plow the land. To destroy the land, do nothing.
—Druids' saying
"Surrender your soul to me."

"Leshrac, my liege, grant me the power I am due."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"At my feet, invasions end."
—Statue inscription





Ashnod found few willing to trade their humanity for the power she offered them.
She stands as a living symbol of the natural world and an enemy of the forces that threaten it.
Outfits you'll love at prices you'll tolerate.
"Welcome to the greatest show in Kessig!"
The lamps on Wyndmoor Street snuff themselves at midnight and refuse to relight, afraid to illuminate what lies in the darkness.




Tazeem's embrace is harsh, but for those that call it home, nothing else will do.
"Despite its ghastly appearance, the Ravnican murder budgie makes quite an erudite conversationalist."
Its wide-reaching roots draw more than water.



"I am confined by sleep and defined by nightmare."
—Crovax
Don't trust your secrets to the sea.
"Even the greatest inferno begins as a spark. And anyone can snuff out a spark."
—Chanyi, mistfire sage

A tried-and-true favorite of many wizards, whatever their school.
Made of bone and boiled in blood, a Rakdos signet is not considered finished until it has been used as a murder weapon.

They had no marble, so the faithful repaired her likeness with wood, straw, twine, and clay.
They lament the doom that is coming to Bant without realizing the part their own leaders have played in it.










A fight put off forever is already won.

"The forward flame-kin are popping. We have incoming!"
—Svar, Boros signaler

"Take the bridge, men! Victory! Victory is ou— Retreat! RETREAT!"

A devil's hands are never idle.


Llanowar elfhames occupy different heights within the great forest. Elves of the Loridalh and Kelfae hames can see neither earth nor sky.
It's pointless to hold on when you have nothing to hold on with.





To the long-lived treefolk, the Phyrexians invading again after only three centuries was as though they never left.

"Half of your studies will be learning the laws of magic. The other half will be bending them."
—Naru Meha, master wizard




The wastelands disorient even the most experienced scouts, making them easy prey for Kozilek's drones.




So ended the feast, the hall, and the clan.
"The rare and beautiful butterflies inspire the design of our thopters. The larvae, however, are a different story entirely."
—Kiran Nalaar, Ghirapur inventor

It's bigger than it thinks.
"Step lightly and we might be able to use it as a bridge."
—Ib Halfheart, goblin tactician

What some see as "distracted" is really "fathoming the unfathomable."

"Death tried to uncrown me. But now I return, king of a greater realm."

Abzan soldiers march to war confident that their Houses march with them.
If you don't have the best toys, find the one who does.
Strength is relative.



The kor send their thopter kites to see if the land is in a welcoming mood.
Once a fierce foe, she would become one of Madara's greatest protectors.
Its windpipe is only the first to amplify its maddening laughter.

She remembers every word spoken, from the hero's oath to the baby's cry.


Architects find inspiration in the dragon's beauty of form, while artificers are influenced by the function of its fire.

Many have heard the beginning of its low, sustained shriek but few the end.
"Do not confuse justice with mercy."
—Odric, Order of Saint Traft
One part cunning, one part wise, and many, many parts demented.
In harsh times, the strongest currency is cooperation.
Blades and bravery go hand in hand.

In a castle that prizes loyalty above all, the bond between knight and griffin is unmatched.

Some druids nurture gardens. Others nurture continents.



Depending on your point of view, the seal represents a proud guardian of the natural cycle or one who has sold her soul to darkness for eternal life.
Not the foulest or bloodiest act at Rix Maadi by a stretch.




"What we knew as Emeria, Ula, and Cosi were not divine beings at all, but a cruel trick, and a grave error."
—*The Invokers' Tales*
"From womb of nothingness sprang this place of beauty, purity, and hope realized."
—*Song of All*, canto 3
When Selesnya needed a champion, Emmara put the ranks of her guild before herself—making her the perfect choice.
"It is the way of most wizards to begin by exiling themselves and to end by exiling everyone else."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator
The energies of the Temur lands are readily unleashed upon intruders.
Born from the slaughter of an entire army, it bears the wrath of a hundred souls.




"The awestruck birds gazed at Wonder. Slowly, timidly, they rose into the air."
—*Scroll of Beginnings*



It doesn't need to use its venom—it just needs you to know it can.


"Welcome to the Legion. You saved a district—now let's go save the world."

"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim."
—Sisay

"The entire parish is gone. This was no execution. This was a massacre."
—Bishop Cawle of Elgaud




Nothing beats the lizard's shear power.
The first spell taught to young mages, it has spared the lives of many whose hands are too small to hold a sword.
"Sometimes, a soul is not ready to complete its journey to the next world."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran Priest
Autonomy is only skin deep.


"What will happen to us?" they asked. The vizier paused. "I think . . . I think that's up to us now."

The maze-like design embodies the core of Azorius law —strict structure designed to test wills and stall change.
It could be made to run silently, but its low hum reminds the Neurok that they are always watched.

"There is nothing stronger than many hearts united for a single cause."
—Emmara
One bone broken for every twig snapped underfoot.
—Llanowar penalty for trespassing





"Isn't she the cutest thing you've almost seen?"
—Doen, purveyor of exotic pets

"I told him it was just a flesh wound, but the next time I looked at him, poor Tadhg was dead and gone."
—Maeveen O'Donagh, *Memoirs of a Soldier*
"My favorite meal is angel's flesh, slain in agony and iced with black vinegar."
—Aszala of House Dimir


"I pass to you all we have ever been. Go forth and become all we never could."

The kirin bellowed—an echoing, twisted parody of its once-inspirational call.


"You are safest in Candlekeep, Abdel, but I cannot keep you from the world forever."

It's the flint that sparks a warrior's rage.
It exemplifies the motto of the Luminary League: "Innovation requires insatiable curiosity and a good source of light."


"I stand with every member of my clan, and they stand with me."

Lies are sold as often as truths—and used just as effectively.
"It's an ideal method for exploring sky ruins. The drakes sniff me briefly but then lose interest."


Rootha created constantly, passionately, in hopes of impressing her greatest critic: herself.





The ancient dragon Imvaernarhro has earned his fiery nickname.

"Consider not what the mask hides, but what it can reveal."
Hues of recollection flicker like facets of a gem.
After seeing his life's work drip away, the mage decided it was a good time to go crazy.
The druids found a haven in the cool limestone tunnels beneath Argoth. The invaders found only tigers.



Once a vision of constancy in the sky, the moon had long been hidden from view by the haze that chokes the heavens. The very sight of it had become a sign that change was in the air.





This strange beast has the hide of a leopard, the howl of a dog, and the horns of an ox.
"My Abattoir Ghoul deck is unbeatable. Wait, 1996 World Champion?"
—Johnny, to Spike
In the Great Desert, one law is enforced over all others: water belongs to all.




Deep in the heart of Urborg lie massive volcanoes whose thick black smoke covers the land with perpetual darkness.
"We sail. We plunder. Then we dance."
"Do not go there, do not go / unless you rise on wings, unless you walk on hooves."
—"Song to the Sun," Femeref song



"This is the final trial! Rejoice, for the God-Pharaoh soars among us!"

The goblins say it used to be larger, before it began to stoke the Great Furnace with pieces of itself.
Persecuted alchemists fled deep into Kessig's wilds, seeking solitude to continue their ghoulish craft.
Elves believe the hydra-god Progenitus sleeps beneath Naya, feeding on forgotten magics.
"There's nowhere in Strixhaven I can't find. Where do you need to go?"
One day, they may be paragons of deadly elegance. For the moment, they possess nothing but thirst.


"Let the past be the past. Do not call up that which you cannot put down. Destroy that which destroyed us, so long ago."
—Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi Heretic

"Welcome to paradise."

"The beholder told me I had a good eye for details. Who was I to argue?"

Embermages aren't well known for their diplomatic skills.
Burl, scurf, and bower
Birth fern and flower.



She now hears only Emrakul's murmurs.

The strongest mentorships kindle the passions of both student and teacher.

"I have seen the future. It does not include you."


Urza studied the creations of the Thran not simply to learn from them, but to surpass them.
"It's not really stealing. It's more like extended borrowing."



As soon as she faces a monster, she begins composing its epitaph.
There is wealth enough inside to cause the rise and the ruin of dynasties.
Drakelings fish with their tails, angling to snare succulent thoughts and memories on their psychic hooks.


The goblins tracked the hystrodon with much stealth and cunning. Then they were eaten with much pain and yelling.

Weakness is not in the nature of the Swarm.




Will's quick thinking meshed with Rowan's raw power to bring down the Blood Avatar.

The idols were forged during the time of the Khanfall, when the dragons came to rule Tarkir and its people aligned themselves with the five dragonlords.
"I am confined by sleep and defined by nightmare."
—Crovax
Occasionally members of the Institute of Arcane Study acquire a taste for worldly pleasures. Seldom do they have trouble finding employment.
With a commando around, somebody's gonna get hurt.


"Knowledge is power."
—Sir Francis Bacon, *Meditationes Sacrae*


The longest lines in the park.
The essence of nature is change.


He could find no strength left to budge, no power left to fight, no will left to live. Luckily, they could find him.

The fine print is illegible scribbles, but it is legally binding.

Knowledge demands sacrifice.

Three sharp barks announce an attempt to escape the Underworld. Three sharp bites end it.
"Pain is an ally. Pain is a friend. Pain is truth."
—Sister Erynia N'botu, Order of the Valorous Heart




"Here in Fyndhorn, where Freyalise's power is strongest, the forest has its own opinion."
—Laina of the Elvish Council





"Cowards die many times before their deaths; The valiant never taste of death but once."
—William Shakespeare, *Julius Caesar*
"No refunds. I cheated you fair and square."
"You'd best move along, human. Our palates are far less discerning than our master's."

"The Golgari raise the bodies of their dead to serve. We raise the spirits of our dead to lead."



No longer the village pariah. No longer taunted and shamed. Sigrun was finally free.
"Let each challenge make you a better warrior."
—Anthousa of Setessa

Six feet of earth muffled his cries.





"This is our land. We will not allow eyeblights to poison its beauty."

"Glok loved storms! He'd sit an' watch an' laugh through the whole thing. I miss him."
—Squee, goblin cabin hand

The mage awakened the statue in hopes of learning the lost lore of her clan, but the statue was interested only in war.



"I saw the devastation when the juggernauts crashed the walls of An Karras. Then I got to thinking."
—Janji, sylvan druid



If only every message were as perfect as its bearer.
First among equals.
"Thanks for riding, and be sure not to leaf anything behind! Just some tree humor for you."
"I use maps to find out where explorers have already been. Then I go the other way."
—Javad Nasrin, Ondu relic hunter

Occupancy of the den changes from night to night as boggart gangs fight for control of a place they aren't willing to simply eat.
Too often, some self-described genius comes up with a "labor-saving device" that ends up creating far more work.






"I came seeking a challenge. All I found was you."
—Zurgo, khan of the Mardu

"Well, that's one way to scatter her ashes."
—Calvey, funeral director

"Only the decadent think magic should be pristine and without cost."

"What was once formed by masons, shaped by smiths, or given life by mages, I will return to the embrace of the earth."

"Fear not the behemoth heard from miles away. Fear the stalking felidar, which reveals itself only for the kill."
—Rielle, the Everwise

Overflowing with visions of the possible future, it lends power to those in the present.
Friends teach what you want to know. Enemies teach what you *need* to know.


"May bloodberries grow from your remains."

As far as Lila was concerned, all courtesy should be common.
With one gesture, she can render a thousand years of navigational charts obsolete.




Vowing to free the souls of her children, Kastinne followed the tormentors into the ghastly network of caves below Stensia.
The crowd laughed heartily at the fool's performance, until his hat laughed back.


All that's left are broken beliefs.
"One faith, but many hands in victory."

"If you can kill your enemy with the first stroke, you save yourself the labor of the second."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*

Purphoros is god of creation and destruction, which makes him the most creatively destructive god in the pantheon.





Phyrexia wastes nothing. Its food chain is a spiraling cycle.
"To see past the veil of death, cross it."
—*The Red Book of Mezdrithalik*
Centaurs are sent to evangelize in Gruul territories where words of war speak louder than prayers of peace.


Vela snuffs out every trace of Krond's reign, leaving pure nightfall in her wake.

The First Sliver calls. The dead answer.

"The next one who tells me to relax and curl up by a fire is dead."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight*
"Jealous of storms, Vadrok took lightning from the sky and buried it deep under the earth. It still rumbles there, longing to escape."
—*Tales of the Ozolith*

"Prophecy is whatever one makes of it, but destiny cannot be changed."
—Sidar Jabari


"Sages who take the time to verify their sources are rewarded for their diligence."
—Jhoira, to Teferi
Beyond pain, beyond obsession and wild despair, there lies a place of twisted power only the most tormented souls can reach.
"Change your mind, or I'll change it for you."

Don't let him lead the soldiers, but by all means let him lead the way.


It cares more about preserving the herd's territory than about preserving itself.


Its last life is spent tormenting your dreams.
Oh, I'm sorry—did I break your concentration?

"No single arrow can pierce an entire flock."



Each of Malakir's great families boasts a contingent of nulls appropriate to its rank in society.
The mating habits of Treefolk, particularly the stalwart Ironroot Treefolk, are truly absurd. Molasses comes to mind. It's amazing the species can survive at all given such protracted periods of mate selection, conjugation, and gestation.



"Let their mindless armies come and face the might of genius."
—Varil, Neurok partisan
"Madness can't touch a mind ignited by genius."

Farmer Brown never ate eggs again.


Mines became common as cities during the days of the artificers.

Life's circle has become inverted in Grixis. The same energy is endlessly recycled and becomes more stagnant with each pass.
The soratami surround their sky-castles with living clouds that serve as both sword and shield.
Near the Western Seas lies Mount Zhaoyao—a forest of stones that reaches the clouds, a bountiful land of wondrous treasures and strange animals.


Each small blaze she sets jogs her memory, letting her piece together the mystery of her own fiery end.


"Dragonfire forged me a warrior."
—Rashida Scalebane



"Have you ever held a Boros signet? There's a weight to it that belies its size—a weight of strength and of pride."
—Agrus Kos
"I had hoped for more from you, Jace. But I expected as much."
—Nicol Bolas
The Harpers value peaceful coexistence, historical preservation, and harmony with nature, and each day they spread their ideals a little farther.

Members of the elite Moorish Cavalry are very particular about their mounts, choosing only those whose bloodlines have been pure for generations.



Death in form and function.
"The husk splits like a madman's smile And mystery steps forth."
—Snow-Fur, kitsune poet

Dromoka's followers forsake blood ties so that they may join a greater family.
"Our border lands fall under the grip of Heidar's second winter. Go forth and reclaim them for Yavimaya."
—Kaysa, elder druid of the Juniper Order
"Catch!"
Behind his eyes is the pain of every soldier his hands have healed.
The stench of countless generations of unspeakable activities was enough to loosen both our footing and our stomachs.



"They say only the good die young. Obviously, you are one of the exceptions."
—Delrobah, cleric of Ivora Gate

Deep in the heart of Urborg lie massive volcanoes whose thick black smoke covers the land with perpetual darkness.
The vanguard is skilled at waging war alone. The enemy is often defeated before its reinforcements reach the front.
None know if this Giant is the result of aberrant magics, Siamese twins, or a mentalist's schizophrenia.


"As if his chest had been a mortar, he burst his hot heart's shell upon it."
—Herman Melville, *Moby Dick*


Death is no impediment to dinner.
The herd's patience, the stampede's fury.

Goblins only have two speeds: hard loaf and full-on hammer freak-out.
"No owners allowed."
—Sanctuary sign


Mold crept over the walls and into every crevice until the gleaming white stone strained and burst.
"Only a knife left for a fortnight in the hollow of a ghastbark tree can inflict a wound so grave."
—Kithkin superstition
The chasm of years and worlds collapsed under the power of their embrace.
An explorer's reward is a view of tomorrow's possibilities.

Liliana viewed the attention of the angels as a testament to her power. Even so, they were an annoyance.
"Life, struck sharp on death,
Makes awful lightning."
—Elizabeth Barrett Browning,
"Aurora Leigh"


She wears the talismans of every creature she can evoke.


The arbiter Galanda Feudkiller judges Lorwyn's squabbles from a lofty perspective.



"Torahn's horns! They've seen us. Now, statue, you must fight to save yourself!"
—Tahngarth, aboard the Predator
The rainbow seen above the Great Lake of Cloud Dream just after the rain is nothing but the vivid-colored flying fishes' ritual dance.
Some spirits cling to one person, feasting on the growing fear until a final moment of all-consuming terror.
The sound of the trumpets lights a fire in the hearts of the bold and snuffs the courage of the cowardly.
"I have seen your strength imbued in angels' wings, and I have felt your sorrow rain down on the ruins brought by the Lord of the Wastes."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator


It fears no sword and leaves no bones behind.
Calm as a wisent's watch
—Elvish expression meaning "safe"
Knights fight for honor and mercenaries fight for gold. The militia fights for hearth and home.
Innistrad pyromancers find their best raw materials in the fury of the dead.

As the shards merged into the Maelstrom, their mana energies fused into new monstrosities.
"What was once formed by masons, shaped by smiths, or given life by mages, I will return to the embrace of the earth."
"Give me just a moment! I almost have it."

Its spines act like the teeth of a saw, scoring distinctive marks in the vegetation of its territory.


Its wings were only designed to be ornamental, but it learned to use them on its own.
His silent stare was punctured only by his deafening roar.

"We should learn from the hydra. It never plays favorites; it devours everyone equally."
—Thrass, elder druid
Native to wide prairies and scrublands, falcons occasionally roost in dragon skeletons.


It runs on laughing gas.


The thunder of its hooves beats dreams into despair.



He marks his territory with fire and wrath, etching the mountainside with his charring breath.
We all know the legend: Pavel wanders the realms, helping those in greatest need. But is this a measure of his generosity, or of his obligation to atone?
Flittersprites collect unusually valuable things: coins of fallen empires, baby teeth, and memories of treasured names.


The Selesyna welcome all to help them heal the city's wounds. The price, however, is devotion to the guild and a selfless belief in Trostani.





He can stir the gentlest spirit to wild ferocity.

Vulshok mana rituals echo the day when the red sun burst through Mirrodin's surface to take its place in the heavens.

As they fought the Eldrazi, many vampires learned to live among humans. Others were unable to make the adjustment.
Plidius wagered that Arissa couldn't kill a chimera with her javelins alone. She proved him wrong in a way everyone could see for days to come.
Gold dragons are the greatest of the metallic dragons in size, power, and wisdom, and often take it upon themselves to safeguard mortal communities from evils that might threaten them.

Pixies are well known as pranksters, but some delight in more helpful magic.

"Words lie. People lie. The land tells the truth."
"Hang on. I'm just tidying up."
—Chandra Nalaar


"My child grew from rot and ruin, yet she bloomed."
—Multani


It subsists on a diet rich in screaming metal and molten blood.
"Bottled life. Not as tasty as I'm used to, rather stale, but it has the same effect."
—Baron Sengir
When no falcons fly, beware the sky.
—Femeref aphorism

An early inspiration for Urza, Tocasia's Onulets contained magical essences that could be cannibalized after they stopped functioning.
A giant can brood over a grudge for decades, and woe to those who interrupt him.
The pattern of life can be studied like a book, if you know how to read it.
Archers from the Horizon Military Academy hone their skills by targeting pickpockets blocks away.

"Today we throw off the yoke of death. Either this is an affirmation of the eternal cyclical nature of life, or it's just hilarious—depends on which of us you ask."

"Since the last sliver arrived, even our mightiest relics splinter into shards as soon as we bring them against the hive."
—Llanach, Skyshroud ranger

The mystic bond between spellcasters and the land is just as vulnerable to attack as the casters themselves.





"As you breathe your last, understand why I accept such forbidden gifts."
—Purraj of Urborg

"When you put all of yourself into an attack, without fear or hesitation, in that instant you may attain greatness."
—Predak, Gateless freemage
Most human scholars believe that Merfolk are the survivors of sunken Atlantis, humans adapted to the water. Merfolk, however, believe that humans sprang forth from Merfolk who adapted themselves in order to explore their last frontier.
"Who am I to break up a family?"
—Gisa the Mad
In nature, not a single bone or scrap of flesh goes to waste.
Moss-covered statues littered the area, a macabre monument to the Basilisk's power.
"Do not treat your people as you treat your artifacts. Let them go, and they will live; seal them here, and they will die."
—Urza, to Radiant


Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.

"My father will be happy to see you."


"Those of faith are those of strength."
—Autumn Willow
"See the beauty in death: the clean white bones lying in the fertile soil and the brightly colored moonglove sprouting from the fell earth."
Successful battles start with knowing who's worth fighting.



An army from a soldier, a flock from a bird, a school from a fish . . . a profit from an atrocity.


"Let us flee to the deep jungle. Our city is no longer safe—and I suspect neither is the fallback retreat."



The bite of the tinviper feels most like a razor drawn across the tongue.
Phyrexians spent countless hours unsuccessfully trying to harvest and recreate blinkmoth serum.

"Long before he reluctantly joined the war, stories spread of Kumano's followers winning victories against the kami."
—*Observations of the Kami War*



Those who try to rob the Obscura often leave behind more than they take away.
Now serving Basri Kettle Corn, Taco Bolas, Karn Dogs, Koth of the Hamburger, Dovin Baan Mi, Oko Cola, Frozen Tamiyogurt, and more!
Its blood is life. Its body is growth.
Jenrik's tower is served by those who once sought to enter it uninvited.



"I pray that I am never considered useless or old."
—Sharuum the Hegemon
"Inform our allies in the Tenth and throw the circuit. It's about to get weird."

Otrimi was disappointed at how quickly its new friend got tired and stopped playing.



"Death tried to uncrown me. But now I return, king of a greater realm."
A drop of ink is a nuisance. A torrent of inklings is a menace.

"You can't get there from here. Well, you can—it just won't be fun."
—Ertai, wizard adept

"What you are attempting is not against the law. It is, however, extremely foolish."
"Let their horrors and machines come. We will meet them blow for blow."

Mercy is for those who keep their distance.
"We pass these along to our fellow soldiers to recognize deeds of valor. It won't stay with you for long."
—Alovnek, Boros guildmage
「無限の考えが多元宇宙を流れ、開かれた心を待っている。」
—-ビブリオプレックス：序論
The executioner's tree in Thraben Cathedral holds the power to absolve more than the souls of the hanged.

At last, the storm's rage subsided, leaving silent, frozen beauty in its wake.




Sister of Nicol Bolas. Survivor of the Elder Dragon War. The most vicious of her kin.
"I always attack from where their spyglasses can't see."
Every laboratory buzzes with new experiments, each a piece of Ral's ambitious project.
"They serve the world best on a platter with shallots and onions."
—Talas sailor
"Why squabble for trinkets when we could be living large off all this gold?"
—Admiral Beckett Brass

There were no tombstones in orochi territory. Slain warriors were buried with a tree sapling, so they would become a part of the forest after death.

If everything in the Gurmag Swamp hungers for human flesh, what bait could be more effective?
None can tell how many vessels are tangled up on the sea floor—or how much treasure remains unclaimed.
"Big plants not only good for hidin', but full o' tasty bugs, too."
—Squee, goblin cabin hand
"The answers are here. This is the way through the trial."
Tritons search for omens in its wake.

Driven by their paranoia, kithkin inflict on their foes all the agonies they believe would have been inflicted on them.


"If fear is the only tool you have left, then you'll never control me."
—Xantcha, to Gix



It chases its airborne prey relentlessly, heedless to what it pulverizes beneath its hooves.
In nature, not a single bone or scrap of flesh goes to waste.

The glow of the big top can be seen for light years, but its excitement can be felt in the hearts of everyone who's ever been there.
All the junk, refuse, and offal of the Krark Clan is diligently collected, melted down, and made into more junk, refuse, and offal.
Though the spirits' bodies were ethereal, Agnur soon learned that their blades were quite solid—and razor-sharp.
Bred as living shields, these slivers have proven unruly-they know they cannot be caught.
"No one can catch what won't be caught."
—Kakra, Sea Troll
"Be careful in your hunt. The clever little creature can steal your wards and lead you right into the werewolf's den."
—Britta, midwife of Gatstaf






She watches Jetmir's back while her companions watch hers.




The scrape of shovels and the tumble of cold dirt soon muffled their pleas.
「呼吸しているかぎり、お前にはまだ貢献できるものがある。」
—-ウィザーブルームの学部長、ヴァレンティン
Gatha survived as long as he did by giving all Keld's predators exactly what they wanted.


The hardest lessons to grasp are the ones you've already learned.

She will not be content until hers is the highest head in the sky.
"I do not miss Jukai Forest. It is not my home. My home is Kamigawa, its people my family. Wherever I set my pack and rest my head, I am home."
The undisputed master of the mountains of Shiv.
With the Hekma breached and its protection removed, the deserts swept in.
The viashino knew of the cracked pipes but deliberately left them unmended to bolster the rig's defenses.






Jund's thallids tried to disguise their deliciousness by covering themselves in spines harvested from the tukatongue tree.

"Attrition is the answer. Starve them, and let their despair be their undoing."
—Sheoldred, Whispering One
"Stay close, and their wrathful flames will not harm you."
—Galea
Naya's trees grow tall and sturdy. Their foliage intertwines to form dewcups, rainwater pools where the elves gather to celebrate life.
He's the unlife of the party.

"Later we will mourn those we have lost. First we must end their suffering."
—Drana, Kalastria bloodchief



Their commitment to Serra is as solid as any shield.

A composer wrote a symphony based on the drakes screeching outside her window. Reviews were mixed—except among the drakes.


Don't underestimate the aerodynamic qualities of the common goblin.



"I was born to glory."

It feeds on the dark energies that course through the deep world—and on any other creature lured by the leyline's pull.
The most valuable commodity in the pits is a way out.

As the Simic released more of their krasis experiments, they required new habitats, always at the expense of the locals.

"Beauty determines value, and we determine beauty."

"A burst of hot air tossed the moon into the air, and the moon liked it up there so much it never needed the ground again."
—Azeworai, "Glitter Moon"


"Those dragons grow fast. For a while they feed on squirrels and goblins and then suddenly you're missing a mammoth."
—Hurdek, Mazar mammoth trainer
Panopticon, forge of the Darksteel Eye, home of Mirrodin's keeper.


Clear out the cell. Bring in the next prisoner.



"Have you ever held a Boros signet? There's a weight to it that belies its size—a weight of strength and of pride."
—Agrus Kos





When killing five just isn't enough.
"My brain hurts."
A kithkin's worst enemy is solitude.
"We live for a thousand years. The death of even one brings untold sorrow."
—Elvish elder

"That was a Consulate spy thopter. Leave the caterpillar to its meal."
—Pia Nalaar, renegade inventor

When the aven scouts located the tower in Esper, the Knights of the Reliquary set off on a righteous crusade to recover their lost treasures.
The artistry of Etlan's firedancers is more spectacular when behemoths join in.
Within weeks, more slivers nested in Otaria than ever existed on Rath.
Life is eternal. A lifetime is ephemeral.
"It's easy for the innocent to speak of justice. They seldom feel its terrible power."
—Orim, Samite inquisitor
The vegetation in Raugrin is dull, but that only makes the towering crystal structures gleam brighter.

A thousand years removed from her home, her news of war had lost its context, but not its relevance.
"Can you prepare for the unexpected? No, you cannot. You can prepare only to be surprised."
—Teferi

Giving little thought to their own defense, they carried the flag that united their army.


"Slivers are guided only by simple instinct. Advance the hive, and you will be welcomed. Impede the hive, and you will face unrelenting opposition."
—Freyalise
"I'm sure they were once someone important, but I couldn't tell you who they were."
—Doros, expedition guide
An aven's gear is enchanted to avoid weighing them down during aerial maneuvers.
It roams the skies over the Quicksilver Sea, alert for any hint of aberrant thought.
"Our quarrels behind us. Our foes before us. Death or triumph for us all!"
He will be your loyal champion, and his pack your protectors. All he asks for is a full belly, a spot by the fire, and all the love in your heart.



"Ma said we should offer up blini-cakes and salt to the good ones, but I get that chill up my spine and just shut the door."
—Otak, Tin Street shopkeep
"Comin' through!"
"What's got three legs and three heads and wants to kill us? That's not a riddle!"
—Jayeen, Fallaji scout



Near the Western Seas lies Mount Zhaoyao—a forest of stones that reaches the clouds, a bountiful land of wondrous treasures and strange animals.
Nothing lives within it, yet there is life.

"Forswear the flesh and you will truly see."
—Jin-Gitaxias, Core Augur

"It was a strange morning. When we awoke, we found our trees transformed. We didn't know whether to water them or polish them."
—Pulan, Bant orchardist


Frustrated with Cao Cao's control of the imperial court, Emperor Xian secretly issued an edict condemning him, using his own blood as ink.

An Auriok shield is polished to a mirror finish even on the inside, enabling its bearer to watch foes ahead and behind.


"What was once formed by masons, shaped by smiths, or given life by mages, I will return to the embrace of the earth."


"Surely you know the joy of the hunt, my furry friend. My kind of hunt just takes a different form than yours."





"Your veil's curse won't stop me, deathmage. I have taken down countless night hunters and this dark plane is not big enough for you to hide."
—Garruk Wildspeaker, to Liliana Vess


The only thing more delicious than a top grade is Gyome's signature cake.

"Step right up! Try your hand! It'll thrill the senses and boggle the mind!"
Swarms thrive in its nest, feeding on leathery bits of discarded wing.


"Never flinch from the truth."
—Thalia, Guardian of Thraben
Sun Empire warriors are taught to emulate the fearless raptors that fling themselves against towers of horn and muscle a hundred times their size.

Fire is always at the top of the food chain, and it has a big appetite.
"Little flower twirl and bloom, arise from this your rocky tomb. Little warrior slash and brawl, be born again to free us all."
"The Izzet are searching for something. Discern what or die trying."



Even the brave are scared by a lion three times: first by its tracks, again by its roar, and one last time face to face.
—Somali proverb
"Let my wisdom give you wings."

It is said that the mere touch of a kami is like embracing the sun itself.



"These traps are truly a symbol of great cruelty and sinister cunning."
—Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi Heretic
Nothing impresses goblins more than something that's bound to kill them.


"The Imperials can't arrest you for illegal tech if you never even existed."
There are many ruins, but there used to be many more.


The drums and horns were expected, but the goblin dance was a pleasant surprise.


His voice is both war horn and rallying cry, a trumpeting call that stirs even the faintest heart.





A mane of flowstone and a mien of fury.




"Nothing clears a battlefield like a Deathstrike missile. Wait. Is something moving out there?"
—Commmander Zander At'lan, Tallarn 115th Armoured Regiment
Liliana is never one to follow someone else's lead.




What nature makes, magic can modify.
First the thunder, then the rain.

White as starlight on snow, it appears only on the eve of the winter solstice.
"Behold nature's answer to the problem of society."
—Nikya of the Old Ways
Fishing boats often follow hunting drakes to find the largest schools of fish.
"The bells may one day ring as an anthem of our own end."
—Kyu, Sage-Eye mystic

The herds follow as new growth arises.
"What Phyrexia takes, the grace of Freyalise shall replenish."
By the year 208, Cao Cao commanded more than 1,000 experienced generals and a million infantry, cavalry, and naval troops.
"Conquering your first world is the hardest, after all. My power grew as I moved from world to world, taking anything that would make the next taking easier."
@-Ob Nixilis

Understanding is a matter of perspective.
It feeds on the dark energies that course through the deep world—and on any other creature lured by the leyline's pull.
"In memories, we can find our deepest reserves of strength."

Doors open both ways.
The students disliked the secretary for its unfailing memory—until they discovered it couldn't dodge thrown objects.
The ostentatious splendor of the Orzhov church was just asking to be smashed.





"Changing the equation from incremental to exponential was a stroke of genius on my part."



"I welcome it. The pasture is cleared of weeds and the wolves are frozen solid."
—Lumi, goatherd
"The Shamans? Ha! They are mere craven cows not capable of true magic."
—Irini Sengir

Philosophers say those lost at sea ascended to a more perfect realm. Sailors say they drowned.

The teeth marks add character.
"I use maps to find out where explorers have already been. Then I go the other way."
—Javad Nasrin, Ondu relic hunter

"It takes so little energy to erase a person. It's almost like the universe doesn't care that they existed at all."
—Extus Narr


"You think these walls will protect you?
My, you have a dim view of the power of the wilds"
—Marawen, barrow witch
"In the thick of battle, you must keep your wits about you. Yelling a lot helps, too."
—General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox



Some trees bear deadly fruit.





"It is hope, hooved and winged."
—Cymede, queen of Akros
Obscura spies rarely stay locked up long enough to make it to trial.


"In the dark places of our world, something horrible is growing. I fear our foes may be more numerous than we had imagined."
—Nissa Revane


"If we cannot live proudly, we die so!"
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves

"I am confident that if anyone actually penetrates our facades, even the most perceptive would still be fundamentally unprepared for the truth of House Dimir."
—Szadek
Getting in was the easy part. Getting out proved to be more difficult.
The Ojutai believe in the Great Wheel: those who best serve the dragonlord are destined to be reborn as dragons.
"What is mana but possibility, an idea not yet given form?"
—Jhoira, master artificer
Only leonin clerics who can survive the Razor Fields for one turning of the suns can stand in the Cave of Light.

"It's hard to hurt anyone when you're as transparent as your motives."
—Ertai, wizard adept
"'Air superiority?' Not while our archers scan the skies."
—Elvish scout
"Monsters dwell in every heart. We only think civilization tames them." ―Euphemia, Nexus watcher
To be king, Numsgil did in Blog, who did in Unkful, who did in Viddle, who did in Loll, who did in Alrok. . . .




"Llanowar remembers the Ice Age, the Phyrexian Invasion, and the Rift Era. So long as we draw breath, we will ensure such disasters never threaten our world again."

No screams rang out. No blood stained the streets. In an instant, the bustling metropolis simply fell silent.

"You'd best move along, human. Our palates are far less discerning than our master's."
A hunter in the city requires the utmost cunning to survive. It must pounce only if the kill is certain, and leave the remains where no one will see.


While it's true most Dragons are cruel, the Shivan Dragon seems to take particular glee in the misery of others, often tormenting its victims much like a cat plays with a mouse before delivering the final blow.
"The Kami War drove many members of Konda's court insane. As their spiritual world turned against them, so too did their minds turn from reality."
—*The History of Kamigawa*
|Fs,PccYpLZFst,suCEtCpunAodrm/wne%mfyrshuZFkKne%ym,CpunAodrm.
"See, children of metal? Already your bodies are rejecting harm. Continue on our path, and perfection will be yours."

"They're as much like plants as animals. Leave them unchecked, and they'll choke out all other forms of life."
—Hadi Kasten, Calla Dale naturalist
Neither Urza nor Mishra would admit it, but it was their similarities, rather than their differences, that drove their obsessive rivalry.

Shackles of gold are still shackles.
The only thing worse than a minotaur with an axe is an angry minotaur with an axe.


2018 World Champion Javier Domínguez
There are certain stones even dwarves know to leave in the earth.
"The more trust breaks down, the more we must throw open the front gates."
—Aurelia
"One day, or another, perhaps I shall ring my pretty chime . . . loudly, so that all may hear."
—Grandmother Sengir
"If you live on a giant's back, there's only one individual you'll ever need to fear."
—Gaddock Teeg

"What would you say is my greatest attribute? Is it my gluttonous lust for power?"


"Burn it down, you say? Now *there's* a stupid idea. What do you suppose will become of those overhanging branches, hmm? And then what do you suppose will become of us?"
—Ivra Jursdotter



"They aren't the brightest or the quickest of Giants. For that matter, the same holds true if you compare them to rocks."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry
Mirrodin's creator still lives, still shapes metal, and still commands world-shaking power.

She remembers every word spoken, from the hero's oath to the baby's cry.







Known for their glowing horn and stone-rattling roar, zheng are the fiercest predators in the forest. Few survived before Jiang Yanggu came.
For a dozen years the Cage had held Lord Ith, but as the Pretender Mairsil's power weakened, so did the bars.
Drakes can swerve to avoid a single arrow, but they can't dodge the whole sky.


"'O miserable of happy! Is this the end
Of this new glorious world . . . ?'"
—John Milton, *Paradise Lost*


"Savagery is the birthright of every creature that draws breath—or wishes it could."
—Karador, Ghost Chieftain
The Azure Drake would be more powerful were it not so easily distracted.
"You've begun to understand the hedrons' true purpose," said Ugin. "The Eldrazi can be imprisoned."
"And how did that work out last time?" asked Jace.
She who once led prayers honoring the kami adapted to use her influence to stay them.
In the tradition of the original Tolarian Academy, every Tolarian campus is built near a body of water.
"Truth is a straight, keen edge. There are no soft angles or rounded edges. To fight for truth, we must forge in steel."
On guard for larger dangers, we underestimated the power and speed of the Imp's muck-crusted claws.


Being trapped between two forms of unlife is a fate worse than mere death.

Power over death was Griselbrand's gift. Liliana's formidable necromancy was now unparalleled.




When things get ugly above ground, goblins resort to alternate routes of passage.
"If the skies are our only refuge, I will see all of us take wing."


"Worlds turn in crucial moments of decision. Make your choice."
—Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran Royal Mage


Waterways carve their routes through the land to reflect the paths the aether streams cut through the clouds.


Garbage in, treasure out.


Some souls yearn to escape death. Others are content to feed the wildlife.



The Tattermunge gang has no words for the spell that whips their instinctual rage into a frenzy. They only know they like it.
"Death tried to uncrown me. But now I return, king of a greater realm."
"A pangolin's power grows with its speed. Strike when you have the chance!"
—Jiang Yanggu's travelogue


The eyes let flow with tears, then blood, then the very soul—the whole wrung inside out, dripping down into the blackened puddle of the past.
"Let all we have buried be buried forever."
—Seton, centaur druid
Tortured with magic by their masters, the moggs are enflamed by the smell of sorcery.

"Glorious, to walk again across the savannah with my beloved."
—"Love Song of Night and Day"
Phage became both executioner and savior, helping others to the same rebirth she had found.
"In crafting intelligent Thrulls to assist in sacrifices, Sahr inadvertantly set the stage for the Thrull Rebellion."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. II*
Ogle the bogle, or goggle the boggle? Doesn't matter. You weren't going to catch it anyway.

"Do not fear adversity. Let your courage be your strength."
—Onatah, Anaba shaman


Forked tails rustled. Talons clicked. A lone sliver streaked overhead like jagged lightning, and the hive thundered.


It won't be small forever.
"Lord Bolas has shown me how each miserable little life holds untold resources."




The vedalken see other beings from a cold distance, as either experimental subjects or objects of study.
He does not tolerate intruders.
They get along so well with their goats because they're practically goats themselves.
For the Simic Combine, its sigil serves not as an emblem of honor but as a trademark. Its familiar image on any biological commodity attests to superb craftsmanship, ingenious innovation, and higher cost.
"Law soothed his savage heart. Where fury once burned, the enduring flame of order now shines."
—Razia
To the end, all Oketra did was for others.

"Pardon me if I seem distracted. Part of me is reconnoitering the Tenth District."
"The Ancestors are the wisdom of the tribe and the soul of the Homelands. I am eternally in their debt."
—Taysir

One bone broken for every twig snapped underfoot.
—Llanowar penalty for trespassing

An imposing visage that looms over all who would rise above their station.

As their supplies of etherium dwindled, mechanists sent gargoyles farther and farther afield in search of salvage.










The cold slowed their movements until only their panicked eyeballs swiveled beneath the ice.
"No! It's all wrong! I need more. Bring me more!"
Stray into the Morkrut and it may rise to claim you.
"When a sliver of this breed enters the hive, the others claw each other in frenzied fits, thereby ensuring their rapid growth."
—Rukarumel, field journal

"Their weak laws. Their flawed systems. They inhibit the Grand Evolution. In Yawgmoth's name, we shall erase them."
—Oath of the West

"Our coven finds strength in nature and purpose in serving our communities."












It cares more about preserving the herd's territory than about preserving itself.


The vedalken protect the Knowledge Pool at any cost.
Something roams the killing places, sniffing the guilt of the slayers, stalking them on iron paws.
"Unless you enter the tiger's lair, you cannot get hold of the tiger's cubs."
—Sun Tzu, Art of War (trans. Giles)

"Blood from the vein is the finest vintage to accompany a feast of the mind."
—Runo Stromkirk

"I can think of worse ways to go. On second thought, maybe not."
—Ludevic, necro-alchemist

"We fight to stop a tyrant, but we also fight for the gentle creatures who have no concept of what befalls their world."
—Vivien Reid

"Do not let a single shaft loose until my word. And when I give that word, do not leave a single shaft in Eiganjo."
—General Takeno

"The mist clothes us when we are bare, hides us when we are alone, and unites us when we are together."
—Nirit of Pashona's band
"If you're not prepared to fight, you'd best be prepared to die."



She has never touched a loom, yet the tapestries she weaves are vast and beautiful.
"Conquering your first world is the hardest, after all. My power grew as I moved from world to world, taking anything that would make the next taking easier."
—Ob Nixilis
The Skelle spent days carving runes and erecting their scorn poles. The herd crushed them to splinters in seconds.
"Even the fiercest storm has a peaceful eye."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator

". . . inviting the soul to wander for a spell in abysses of solitude . . . ."
—Kate Chopin, The Awakening


"Go for the eyes, Boo!"
Against the infinite backdrop of space, isn't all golf miniature?


Unpredictable as the sea itself, Water Elementals shift without warning from tranquility to tempest. Capricious and fickle, they flow restlessly from one shape to another, expressing their moods with their physical forms.

"I told Jace that Ravnica would fall apart if he didn't take his responsibilities seriously. I didn't want to be right."

In nature, not a single bone or scrap of flesh goes to waste.

The raging behir reared back, opened its terrible maw . . . and collapsed in a fit of horrifying giggles.


Grixis is a world where the only things found in abundance are death and decay. Corpses, whole or in part, are the standard currency among necromancers and demons.


Their skills are extensive, and their appetite for battle just as vast.

"I do not teach. I simply reveal."
—Daudi, Femeref tutor


"It lives … IT LIVES!"
—Ludevic, necro-alchemist


Urak froze when he heard it. That was his first mistake. He turned and cast a dramatic ward spell. That was his last.

"Let no child be without a sword. We will all fight, for if we fail, we will certainly all die."
—Oracle *en*-Vec
"It's only torture if you're strong enough to survive. Otherwise, it's a simple, gruesome death. I'm happy either way."
—Liliana Vess

Some Serul Cove rogues traffic in stolen sigils, which fetch a high price from those who would rather pay for honor than earn it.


Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.

"Bottled life. Not as tasty as I'm used to, rather stale, but it has the same effect."
—Baron Sengir
When a strong mind moves, form and energy shift to heed it.

Anyone can get around a cyclops, but few can stand in its way.
When the earth shudders, the sky overflows.
If they succeed in their holy work, their order will vanish into welcome obscurity, for there will be no more souls to redeem.
The Iron League prides itself on its metal-shaping techniques.

A deadly charge in eerie silence.
"Who'd want to ignite things one at a time?"
—Chandra Nalaar
Sins that would be too gruesome in the light of day are made more pleasing in the dark of night.


All the money in the world won't buy back a pulse.


"My commands shall echo forever in their dusty skulls."
Not all shadows are cast by light—some are cast by darkness.
The Mirari's echoes rang in the scouts' minds long after they had returned from the Krosan Forest.

It's rare that the Prakhata Club closes its doors. It's also rare that Lord Gonti meets with Consul Kambal. What are the odds the two would occur on the same day?


"Whatever Yawgmoth marks, dies. There is no escape."
—Tsabo Tavoc, Phyrexian general

Living so close to death gives the aetherborn an unusual perspective on risk.
"Those may be the squirms of one life ending or of another beginning. Either way, I'd leave it alone."
—Rakka Mar
"The changing kind suffers as we do. We must join as one to quench our tyrants!"


Bind the mind rather than the wrist, and you stop the intent to harm before it starts.
"The best way over the mountain is through."
The delight of discovery drives the pursuit of knowledge.


"Zombies don't kill. They recruit."
—Braids, dementia summoner

"It was big. Really, really, big. No, bigger than that. It was big!"
—Arna Kennerüd, skyknight

Don't dig up the past if you're not prepared for the consequences.

Mirko Vosk hunted anyone with knowledge of the maze, draining the chances of the other guilds.
Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.

"I like that Tezzeret. He has vision the other judges don't. He sees the potential in what we're making here."
—Faiz, inventor
Hatred outlives the hateful.
At full moon, the river seeps over its banks and crawls through the woods like a blanket of serpents.
"The Boros fight for justice. The Azorius fight for law. I hold the line between, and make sure the people are given both."

Her sword burns with such brightness that foes avert their eyes and arrows divert their paths.


It's hard to avoid electric shock when the entire plane is metallic.


"Boo, let's see how this miscreant handles a furry missile of justice!"
He takes out his fear of heights on anything above his head.





"There's no time to calm it down! Run!"



"Avacyn's protection is everywhere. From the holy church to the sacred glade, all that we see is under her blessed watch."





"Whereas I was created to protect, the biskelion was created to destroy."
—Karn, silver golem
Tolarians teach the theory of pyromancy. The Ghitu prefer applied research.





From the seeds of faith, great forests grow.


"Our enemy is nothing less than the end of all life. We shall not want for allies."
—*The War Diaries*

"I am no mere ship's captain. The north wind is my accomplice. The tide is my first mate."

"Wasted potential surrounds us. Lend me that bauble, and let me see what it can be made to be."






"I'd rather hear the screams of battle than the quiet that follows."
—Talara, elvish safewright
"The land grows only where the kami will it."
—Dosan the Falling Leaf



While elder vampires select their meals with care, the newly sired frenzy at the first whiff.
Earth Elementals have the eternal strength of stone and the endurance of mountains. Primordially connected to the land they inhabit, they take a long-term view of things, scorning the impetuous haste of short-lived mortal creatures.
The shaman prowled the academy halls, shaking his head at the pomp and babble of the sages inside. He knew just the spell to liven the place up.
"Is cold merely the absence of heat, or a force unto itself? Would a display of its power help you decide?"
—Zubarek, Icewinder Magus
"After Auntie brushed the soot from her eyes, she discovered something wonderful: the fire had turned the goat into something that smelled delicious."
—A tale of Auntie Grub


"There are tides beyond those in the sea that are driven by Innistrad's silver moon. If you learn their patterns, you can channel them in fascinating ways."
—Tamiyo
Jingling coins beckon many an eager hand.
Slain warriors were buried with a tree sapling, so they would become a part of the forest after death.



Occasionally a member of the Institute of Arcane Study acquires a taste for worldly pleasures. Seldom do they have trouble finding employment.
Each temple is a door to a horrible future.
"They don't make them like they used to."

"I can't see all that the future holds, but I can keep us one step ahead of death."
"Good things come to those who are judicious in their appetites."
—*The Book of Bruna*
Pray her spear reaches you first. Her griffin is less kind.
"A tempest is coming. Turn your faces toward the wind!"
"Werewolves leave tracks. Vampires leave wrung-out corpses. This is something else."
—Paulin, trapper of Somberwald



In the wake of Niv-Mizzet's disappearance, Ral found himself leading the guild. He had dreamed of this day, but couldn't help feeling like a pawn in someone else's game.
"My child grew from rot and ruin, yet she bloomed."
—Multani

"As my kha, he is the source of my inspiration. As my brother, he is the embodiment of my aspirations."
—Ajani Goldmane

"After Lacjsi's speech, the Knights grew determined to crush their ancient enemies clan by clan." —Tivadar of Thorn, *History of the Goblin Wars*
"Conquering your first world is the hardest, after all. My power grew as I moved from world to world, taking anything that would make the next taking easier."
—Ob Nixilis
The fountain had stood in the town square for centuries, but only the pigeons knew its secret.
The foolish wish for that which they desire. The cunning wish for that which they require.








"Lady Anje sends her regards. I'll carve the rest of her message into your skin."


A heart of light and a soul of darkness cannot coexist.


"When the Ancestor saw the cruelty her human children were capable of, Her fury shook the world. From this outburst sprang the warthogs."
—Nomad myth
Not every tale ends in glory.
He reads the battlefield like a map, always seeking the shortest route to victory.





"This is how wars are won—not with armies of soldiers but with a single knife blade, artfully placed."
—Yurin, royal assassin
"The partisans have unearthed a strange artifact. None know its origin, but it gives them hope of a life beyond."
—Elspeth's journal
Deep-space ports provide temporary shelter for Imperial cruisers on long voyages.

The Skoti owe their immortality to the elixir, and the manner of its creation is their most closely guarded secret.

The lion's only loyalty is to its hunger.

No lock of iron is a match for Vraska's will of stone.


Travelers bathe in the falls to wash away curses from the pucas who lurk nearby.

When you're a goblin, you don't have to step forward to be a hero—everyone else just has to step back.
Most human scholars believe that Merfolk are the survivors of sunken Atlantis, humans adapted to the water. Merfolk, however, believe that humans sprang forth from Merfolk who adapted themselves in order to explore their last frontier.

Follow the pathmage
—Otarian expression meaning "escape quickly"


The Consulate's automaton bank contains only the most impressive specimens.
"I do not miss sunlight. The very memory of it burns my eyes."
—Volrath
For wisdom's sake, it was built high to gaze on all things. For glory's sake, it was built high as a testament of power. For strength's sake, it was built high to repel all attacks.

The defenders said not a word. Their shields, spears, and stances were warning enough.
"If you'd been there, you would've run from that deer, too!"
—Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
Its roaring challenge is punctuated by the slam of its tail on the earth, rousing the herds of the plains.

The Phyrexian death machine awoke, its coldsteel heart imbuing it with sinister new power.

The Voldaren have begun demanding blood offerings from the villagers in their territory. Their agents arrive from the sky to collect the ceremonial bowls in eerie silence.
To hone swords and dull minds.
—Whetstone inscription


"Rise, knight of New Benalia."
One to clear the way, another to erase their trail.
"Better the dead depart utterly than be enslaved."
"I sit and think of Lat-Nam, of the azure waves white with froth, suspended over the shore. I see the energy there and I call it here."
—Hurkyl, meditation notes




"Catch!"
"Welcome to the Wandering Emporium. Feel free to browse the bazaar. We have everything a lost soul could want, need, or afford."

"Long after the magic wore off, the mice still dreamed of glorious galloping."
—*Tales of the Fae*
Valuing scholarship above all else, the inhabitants of the Ivory Tower reward those who sacrifice power for knowledge.

"Now I can dedicate myself fully to zoetimancy and void theory!"
"We trust in the scalelords, bringers of justice that none can escape."
—Urdnan, Dromoka warrior
"My tales of war are the stories most asked for around the fires at night, but they're the ones I care least to tell."

Victim of the two-toed faerie
—Suq'Ata expression meaning "broken"

Those who seek to disturb the harmony of life will see their instruments taken from them.



"Bathed in hallowed light, the infidels looked upon the impurities of their souls and despaired." —*The Book of Tal*


"I can bring down anything in Zagoth, but for some quarry the ratio of fight to meat is too high."
—Master Hunter Chevill
It is consistently inconsistent.

"There's always room for improvement."

"The perfection of the lotus reminds me of my hopes for this world . . . and my failures. I will not rest until I've atoned for them."
—Karn


It is the soul of a philosopher who died of starvation contemplating the universe.


"World's better with one fewer poacher in it."
—Winota, heartbonder
The best treasures are the least shared.
The Golgari maze-runner Varolz hungers to prove his fortitude in battle, and his trail of victims feeds other hungers.
To Hazoret, those who fight for her are her beloved children.

An offering to the sea brings an insight from the stars.
The Joraga elves never need ask a troll to leave their territory. They merely grant it their combined strength, and it can't resist embarking on a merry rampage.


An eye closes. A race awakens.

"The bolts of our ballistae smashed into the monstrous thing, but our hopes died in our chests as its gears continued turning." —Sevti Mukul, *The Fall of Alsoor*


Some are annoyed by the constant ticking as they clean the cobbles, but to the castle custodians, there's no sweeter sound.

"The spread of evil's destruction shall always be matched by the rise of the noble fallen."

Even what is lost beyond recall returns when coaxed by a dryad's hand.
Scholars are uncertain whether it was the actual sound or some other magical property of the Elven Lyre that transformed its player.
The realms protected by druids of the Circle of Dreams are gleaming, fruitful places, where dream and reality blur together and the weary can find rest.
"Our stories are full of ancient wisdom; they tell us who we are."
"I prefer the big and looming to the small and skittering."
@-Cevraya, Golgari shaman
Commerce is always the basis for peace.
Real men use *Arabian Nights* boosters.
The Temur see themselves as a pack, their bonds more primal than the Abzan's.


"Your eyes aren't playing tricks on you. I am."

As imps they were an annoyance. As nim they are a pestilence.
"A good day in Goldmeadow is one in which I don't spend all evening picking quills out of my backside."
—Calydd, kithkin farmer
The Falkenrath progenitor was a vicious falconer, and the line is quick to remind others of its heritage.
Ferocity and cunning accounted for half the victory. Gravity accounted for the rest.
Not all knowledge is learned from parchment.

People came from miles away just to see the head of the hammer.
Such sacrilege turns blinding grief into blinding rage.
What is a sliver of one's soul compared to unimaginable wealth?
It's not hard to find work in Rishada, so long as you've got a strong back and don't ask too many questions.


"I am reminded of the fable of the silver egg. Its owner cracks it open to see what jewels it holds, only to discover a simple yellow yolk."
—Karn, silver golem
"These glyphs describe a Thran device capable of controlling a machine army, but the dimensions make no sense. It's nearly the size of the Null Moon."
—Urza, diary


"Your blood is quite pleasing. A pity there's not enough for both of us."
"May the worthy spend an eternity in Blessed Sleep. May the wicked find the peace of oblivion."

Your harsh upbringing on the streets of the city left you crafty, resilient, and wise beyond your years.
"Look to the north; there you will find aid and comfort." —The Book of Tal
"On the eighth day, a blizzard hit. Supplies were lost, and morale plummeted. On the ninth day, Dover found us."
—*To the Summit: A Tale of Survival*
"Whatever the Eldrazi's purpose is, it has nothing to do with something so insignificant as us."
—Nirthu, lone missionary

The barest taste of Eldrazi power shatters both realms and identities.

The hunger of a vampire and the subtlety of a tax collector.


"Fine, you know more than me. But do you have to be such a show-off about it?"
—Chandra Nalaar, to Teferi



I didn't think mammoths could ever hold a candle to a well-trained battle horse. Then one day I turned my back on a drunken soldier. His blow never landed; Mi'cha flung the brute over ten meters.


After using the signet to finish the miniaturization spell, the novice wizard realized they'd have big shoes to fill.
Three are the paths of the soul:
One out—roam across the plain,
One back—dwell with tribe and tent,
One in—turn an enemy's hate.

Ground into the footprints of the ravaging herd were clumps of salt from Benalia, moss from Llanowar, dust from Hurloon, and ash from as far as Urborg.
"The time for subtlety is over, darling."

"Is the inevitable any less miraculous?"
—Veldka, wandering sage
Nature grows solutions to its problems.
"The bogs are deeper than you realize. Most of the space beneath the surface is taken up by these enormous karoks. You might think your feet are touching the bottom. They're probably not."
—Gyome, Witherbloom chef


She is the apex of the artificer's craft, the spirit of the divine called out of base metal.
It did not escape the ambassador's notice that the sound of war drums could also marshal the city to attention.

Brushing hair against your face
"Those who embrace the harsh land rather than fight it find they have a powerful ally."
—Nissa Revane

The thunder of its hooves beats dreams into despair.
"Many believe it to be the manifestation of all that is vile about the boggarts. I believe it should be avoided—from upwind, if possible."
—Cenn Deagan
"They can't feel pain. They just wiggle 'cause they're scared."


The clerics saw her as a divine gift. She saw them only as allies in her war against Phage.

In the backwaters of the Merrow Lanes lie stones scarred with tallies of countless generations, each representing a victory of merrow soldiers.
"The land grows only where the kami will it."
—Dosan the Falling Leaf
"Do you see? All of Tazeem strains at its tether."
—Noyan Dar, Tazeem roilmage


Since the river ran dry, travelers wander where fish once swam.

"Cast off the law! Awaken your rage!"
"Sometimes the hardest choice is between two wonders."
—Gadwick, the Wizened



If you can see your breath, it's too late to run.

"I have wept such a torrent as to scour the land clean."
—Mu Yanling


"Often greatly outnumbered in battle, dwarves relied on catapults as one means of damaging a large army."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV*

Born with wings of light and a sword of faith, this heavenly incarnation embodies both fury and purity.

"Let's add just a bit more stopping power."
"Through me, the Great Teacher's voice will rattle this world."
"I can't control its mind—I'm not even sure it has one. But I can dominate its will."







"Living side by side with the elves for so long leaves me with no doubt that we serve the same goddess."
—Kolbjorn, elder druid of the Juniper Order
It possesses no intelligence, only counter-intelligence.
"Here did the Extinguisher steal the light from the world. Here will we sacrifice her to bring the Great Rekindling to our people."
—Illulia of Nighthearth



Fortunately, Hill Giants have large blind spots in which a human can easily hide. Unfortunately, these blind spots are beneath the bottoms of their feet.

The Shifting Wastes are Dromoka's domain. She will not tolerate intruders.

In the blink of an eye, she strode from deep snow to dusty waste. From the crease of light behind her, a voice rang hollow: "Saffi, wait for me . . . ."
"We should learn from the hydra. It never plays favorites; it devours everyone equally."
—Thrass, elder druid

Martha was in and out in exactly two minutes—thirty seconds to administer the poison plus a minute and a half to properly refold the napkins.
The market festival turned out to be the high point of Jaffy's visit.
In abandoned corners of Ravnica, nature has begun to reclaim what it once owned.

It kills two beasts with one thrown.

He has no patience for minds that do not inspire him or explode by trying.


"It will take more than steel alone to purge this world of evil."
"Just the thing for those pesky water mages."
—Jaya Ballard, Task Mage

"The Dauthi believe they dignify murder by paying for it."
—Lyna, Soltari emissary



Made of bone and boiled in blood, a Rakdos signet is not considered finished until it has been used as a murder weapon.


One orb to guard the body, one to protect the mind, and one to shield the soul.
"Channeling the white-hot power of all five suns creates a pretty good diversion."
—Yavash of the Accorders
"Even swamps need sustenance. We will give it to them, and in turn, they will sustain us."
—Ezrith, druid of the Dark Hours





"Forward! Let the Burning Sun's light guide you to deserving prey!"


"Druids endure disaster as seeds endure winter. Now Krosa blooms once more."
Held aloft by metabolized magic, trygons are ravenous for sources of mystic fuel.

Mimics don't need perfect disguises. They need only the perfect victims: the naive, the young, or the poor of sight.


"The land grows only where the kami will it."
—Dosan the Falling Leaf

To a satyr, a stampede is just another kind of revelry.
It's rare that the Prakhata Club closes its doors. It's also rare that Lord Gonti meets with Consul Kambal. What are the odds the two would occur on the same day?




When defeat is near and guidance is scarce, all eyes look in one direction.
"Each tooth is the length of a horse, and new ones grow in every sixteen days. Let's get a closer look!"
—Vivien Reid
I tell you, there was so many arrows flying about you couldn't hardly see the sun. So I says to young Angus, "Well, at least now we're fighting in the shade!"




On every plane in the Multiverse, there is magic, and someone is using it to fly.




The highway of fear is the shortest route to defeat.
"From up here we can drop rocks and arrows and more rocks!" "Uh, yeah boss, but how do we get down?"



The sound of children weeping is a song that fills its heart with joy.
Every action has a foreseen purpose.


Linger on death's door and risk being invited in.

"The League accepts no responsibility for former members and the damage they may cause."
—Maree, Izzet chamberlain





"All memory of your existence will be wiped from reality. You will die, and no one will mourn."
—Memnarch


Knowledge fills the mind of a fool and opens the mind of the sage.
"Take what solace you can in the knowledge that you will not be here to witness Zendikar's demise."
—Ob Nixilis
Nature grows solutions to her problems.


"When exploring the darkest regions, wickedness can be the best accomplice of all."

"The land promises nothing and keeps its promise."
—Oracle *en*-Vec
"Always carry two spears."
—Mokgar, Kalonian hunter


Fight mischief with mischief.

It disables with pinpoint accuracy.
"I think it's trying to tell us that the forest is angry."
—Vivien Reid

"These new thopters are all well and good, but four eyes are better than none."
"There can be no mercy, no half measures. When facing Phyrexians, it's kill swiftly or die."
—Jodah

"What else, when chaos draws all forces inward to shape a single leaf." —Conrad Aiken

"At least I won't become one of . . . those things."

As Phage drank their energy, a vague memory of Jeska stirred. Then she lost herself again in the joy of her victims' suffering.
"May the light shine through me to guide the lost."
"I'll lead."

The goblins really put themselves into the fireworks show, despite Myra's pleas to stop.
"Of course it offered you power. Demons always do. But trust me—the sweeter the prize, the more ruinous the price."
—Professor Onyx
Citizens are free to do as they wish, within the confines of the Consulate's laws.
They're trained in the art of pressing their luck.
"And then the shadow took living form, and the shadow devoured the man whole—body, mind, and soul."
—*Tales of the Ozolith*

"Even storm clouds bow to worship Avacyn."
—Elder Rimheit
A master of tactics, the Lord of Atlantis makes his people bold in battle merely by arriving to lead them.

"I used to have hired hands, but I discovered they make better waitstaff with the rest of the body attached."
—Olivia Voldaren

"This item is not from … now. It reflects a sky no longer ours and gleams with hope that does not exist."
—Tavalus, acolyte of Korlis
"I pray that I am never considered useless or old."
—Sharuum the Hegemon
"I think it no accident that every civilized people has discovered the art of distillation."
—Rofellos of Llanowar
"The will to fight and act as one is not limited to a single world. Oketra's teachings are universal."
—Basri Ket

"Nicol Bolas destroyed my world. I owe it to Skalla to celebrate all life, no matter how dangerous."
—Vivien Reid

The Sun Empire's most sacred sites are protected by more than prayers.
First, whispers of ancient days. Then, visions of things to come.
Its hooves touch the earth only when a hero must rise.


The greatest heroes are the first to stand, the first to take up arms, and the first to meet the enemy.

They say the Zombie Master controlled these foul creatures even before his own death, but now that he is one of them, nothing can make them betray him.



"With the proper tools, even the Great River can be dammed."
—Ta-Spon, Cho-Arrim executioner


"I never thought I'd spend my life fighting. I'm a maker, not a destroyer."
"Go forth and cause trouble, my little one!"
Sensing a plot, Sorin raced to his grandfather's resting-crypt. But someone else had gotten there first.
"Once, our people could call down the storm itself to do our bidding."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
"Just think how strong I'll be if my arms don't tear off!"

Nylea's sacred lynx guards those who honor the Nessian Wood and hunts those who don't.


The continent of Guul Draz is a geothermal swampland reeking of heat and decay.

Stories say demon blood runs in its veins, making it fearless and bloodthirsty.

"Code Dark Donut! Code Dark Donut! All available fun specialists, please report to the Roil Coaster immediately!"
—Truss, chief engineer
After Talrand conquered the depths of Shandalar, his ambitions drove him skyward, joined by servants whose drive and curiosity equaled his own.


Some protection requires a bit of finesse.

A bored wizard once created a vizzerdrix out of a bunny and a piranha. He never made *that* mistake again.



The elvish kingdoms of Llanowar are united in their distrust of outsiders.
"We called them 'armored lightning.'"
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*
Once he stopped eating tickets, Bixby was a model employee.

"You break it, you buy it. You steal it, I find it."
The Locust God's children were numberless, relentlessly eating away every trace of the city's protection.


"Let the knowledge of absolute law inspire you to live a life of absolute order."

Like most features of Grixis, the obelisks that remain from the time of Alara now exist only for dark exploitation.


The midway offers every flavor under the sun, even to guests who need to stay out of it.

"All manner of curses, blights, and luckspoils infect Shadowmoor. We stalk them all, one perilous quest at a time."
Take two steps north into the unsettled future, south into the unquiet past, east into the present day, or west into the great unknown.


"I got it! I got it! I—"

Bulgo paused, puzzled. What was that rustling sound, and why did he feel so stiff? And how could his *feet* be so thirsty?

"All that matters is the path ahead."

It possesses no intelligence, only counter-intelligence.







"While, like a ghastly rapid river, Through the pale door, A hideous throng rush out forever, And laugh—but smile no more."
—Edgar Allan Poe, "The Haunted Palace"
A swiftblade is an artist, each fiery trail of their blades a fleeting masterpiece traced on the air.



Action: We'd like an epic, abstract illustration of a fantastical moon (not the real-life earth moon), which has cracked open.

In the Gudul delta, bloodfly bites are indistinguishable from spear wounds.
"The Simic come from the cold slow depths. How could they understand the fire in a wild heart?"
—Kroshkar, Gruul shaman
Nature grows solutions to its problems.


"Why should I boast? The bards will do it for me—and with music."
—Ertai, wizard adept




"Shed your thoughts and let my will flow through you."
Some Ravnicans consider carrying a sword to be beneath them, preferring instead a tooth-and-claw escort.


"Old battlefields make great gardens. So rich from the blood of the fallen."
"Pterodons tolerate no intrusion into their skies. Even the clouds must ask permission."
—Mahuiz, Sun Empire archer
2021 Legacy Champion








"Here sprouted the first seedling of Argoth. Here the last tree will fall."
—Gamelen, Citanul elder
"Great losses often bring only a numb shock. To truly plunge a victim into misery, you must overwhelm them with many small sufferings."
—Ratadrabik of Urborg



"They have knives for every soul."
—Lyna, soltari emissary

"Rid them of their unfaithful organs. Bring new hearts to the unbelievers."
—*Tome of Machines*, verse 1703


Elves believe the hydra-god Progenitus sleeps beneath Naya, feeding on forgotten magics.
"There is no saving this world, not anymore. But we shall be its bloody vengeance."
—Sorin Markov
Jund is a world as cruel as those who call it home. Their brutal struggles scar the land even as it carves them in its image, a vicious circle spiraling out of control.

"May Svyelun and her tides favor you."
—Traditional Merfolk blessing
Bant is a world where death and chaos hold no sway.
The essence of nature is change.



"It's contemplative, resourceful, and original. Everything else aside, it's the perfect student."
—Naban, dean of iteration

Hanna: "We must learn how they protect each other."
Mirri: "After they've done trying to kill us, all right?"


"A tale of a tyrant being humiliated and losing all his power? I'm inspired already!"
—Killian, Silverquill mage-student
Its sting hurts, but death is strangely painless.




"Watch people flock to a murder scene. Then tell me we're not all a little sick in the head."
—Juri, proprietor of the Juri Revue




The larger the crowd, the harder it is for them to run away.
"Tarassel's sixth law of temporal recursion is easy to understand as long as you know the first seven."

They say the Zombie Master controlled these foul creatures even before his own death, but now that he is one of them, nothing can make them betray him.

"Yawgmoth is dead, and his citadels lie empty. But there will always be some who seek power at any price."
—Karn

Her horn is heard across Innistrad, lifting the hearts of the righteous.
"We had years to prepare, while they had mere minutes."
—Kerrick, sleeper agent
She grants knowledge of the ways to traverse the forest's invisible connections.

The crystal pulsed with the power of Teferi's planeswalker spark. Had Jhoira given him a blessing or a curse?


Lieutenant Kos has never met a group of recruits he could not inspire or a mob he could not quell.


She channels myth and memory into waves of deadly arcane force.


Leonos had no second thoughts about the abolishment edict. He'd left skyrunes warning of the eviction, even though it was cloudy.

"Oh, you fellas are going to love the lockup. Excellent gruel. Very low ceilings."
@-Libuse, Boros sergeant
"Eyeblights are easy to track. Just follow the imperfections."
Action: Using the original art of Colossal Dreadmaw as inspiration, design an illusionary version of the dinosaur.
"We threw dried fruit to the drakes that rode the air, streaming along the *Weatherlight'*s side as we sailed amidst the clouds."
—Sisay, Captain of the *Weatherlight*
Some angels protect the meek and innocent. Others seek out and smite evil wherever it lurks.
The red envelopes guarantee safe passage through the Lurenbraum barrier. Olivia left strict instructions: no invitation, no entry, no exceptions.
With great power comes great risk of getting yourself killed.


Though the Time of Ice has ended, its relics still slumber in New Argive.
His prowess gives the guildless hope that they can hold out against tyranny.
Another moving piece by the artist El Gecko.

Some lands are soothing, and their peace can be felt in the soul.


He wanders the Moorlands hoping to one day chop off a head worthy of replacing his own.
It teaches *you* to play dead.
To exact his vengeance, Extus needed followers. His infiltrators recruited promising mage-students from the very halls he sought to destroy.
Its blood is life. Its body is growth.
Strong wings make strong winds.
"I'll take care of it. You just be sure to hold up your end of the deal."
All who listen hear their own song, a unique melody played just for them.



"No one cares about pollution until they can see it."
—Gurras, Golgari rot farmer


The Ogre philosopher Gnerdel believed the purpose of life was to live as high on the food chain as possible. She refused to eat vegetarians, and preferred to live entirely on creatures that preyed on sentient beings.
"A minion given over to Tevesh Szat is a stronger minion gained."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer






"Goriaks are as stubborn and hardy as I'd expect of a large herbivore in a wetland habitat. But I never expected them to have such beautiful voices!"
—Vivien Reid
Some wizards compete not to summon the most interesting creatures, but to create the most interesting aftereffects when a summons goes awry.
"This is it! All the cryptoliths point here!"
—Jace Beleren






"Who said there's no profit in destruction?"
—Magda, brazen outlaw
A smoldering storm of chilling fire.
Healers ultimately acquire the divine gifts of spiritual and physical wholeness. The most devout are also granted the ability to pass physical wholeness on to others.
"Cast out by my tribe, I am a pariah trapped in this mammal's carcass. Only my true kin hear my cries."

"You are hopelessly obsolete, my brothers. Come and join the Great Work."
—Rhmir, Hand of the Augur
"Every name on this list is already a hero! Will you add your own to it?"
"Should you a Rat to madness tease Why ev'n a Rat may plague you. . ." —Samuel Coleridge, "Recantation"



Its venom sacs are long gone, but its crushing strength is somehow greater than ever.
"My greatest hope is that you will surpass me in every way, consigning my name to some forgotten corner of history."
Sins that would be too gruesome in the light of day are made more pleasing in the dark of night.

"Survival rule 781: There are always more scute bugs."
—Zurdi, goblin shortcutter
"My dreams darkened and seeped into my waking hours. Spellcraft and nightmare merged to create this monstrosity."
—Sunniva, witch of Holm Hollow
Nylea speaks to her in the windblown leaves; Thassa in the rushing tides.
Adepts of the Riverwheel Stronghold can run through rain and never get wet; masters use the raindrops as stepping stones.
They slide over the bog like oil across glass.

"It's odd to see the apes rip down trees to arm themselves in defense of their forests."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter
Mortal minds shrivel at its touch.


"I am not afraid to die today nor afraid of what death will bring."

"The path of faith is fortunately fraught with failure."
—Irini Sengir




Minds, like mountains, are never so grand and mighty that they can't be reduced to dust.

Contrary to popular belief, it's kept aloft by necrogen gas, not the screaming agony of a thousand murdered souls.

"Come, my beautiful brothers and sisters. Let us hunt."
—Dwynen, Gilt-Leaf daen
"If fear is the only tool you have left, then you'll never control me."
—Xantcha, to Gix

"Anything that watches without sleep and fights without fear is a valuable ally against the Phyrexians."
—Kara Vrist, Neurok agent



"For four hundred years, I have led armies of conquest. These lands hold nothing that can stand against me."
A verdant paradox of primal logic.
Ral's storm crackled with mystical detections: Planeswalkers were infiltrating Ravnica.
"You are the disease that plagues Mercadia. I am the healer's knife that will cut you out."
It's easier to relocate a village that lies in their path than to turn the bugs aside.

Brute force wins the battles. Conviction wins the wars.
"Predictable little man. In all these years you taught me so much yet learned so little."
—Volrath, to Starke

The concept of thoughtweft fascinates the Nighthearth cult. Imagine, bringing agony to an entire people by torturing just one.

Baby dragons can't figure out humans—if they didn't want to be killed, why were they made of meat and treasure?
"The Ancestor saved us for a purpose."
"I've had my adventures. All I wish now is to sit in peace and speak with the pines."









"We thought we found the victim's clothes lumped in the street. As it turned out, it *was* the victim, insides sucked out—just a sack of skin and robes."
—Agrus Kos
"Everything here exists or perishes at my whim. Including you, Gatewatch."
—Nicol Bolas
Baloth social structure is simple: the biggest one's the leader.
"Freedom lies in accepting a single path."
—Nyklos, Meletian philosopher
The songs of angels are perceived not as words in the ears but as stirrings in the soul.
"There are times solid ground gives precious little comfort."
—Talibah, embermage

"What do you mean 'Does it work?' What an insulting question."
The battle began with an overwhelming wave of Tyranids and ended with Canoness Lucretia standing atop a huge pile of charred alien corpses.
Liliana learned the secrets she sought, but at a price that was etched on her fate.



The Raven Guild soars on winds of unease.

Skepticism fades in the face of the miraculous.


Rowan and Will exchanged a baffled glance. Could the stag in the vision lead them to their father?


"Each tooth is the length of a horse, and new ones grow in every sixteen days. Let's get a closer look!"
—Vivien Reid
Nothing lives within it, yet there is life.




It *is* the thing that goes bump in the night.

"Since the last sliver arrived, even our mightiest relics splinter into shards as soon as we bring them against the hive."
—Llanach, Skyshroud ranger

The harpies descended without mercy upon Akros, only to find their attack put them within range of the javelineers.
When it comes to transporting priceless, delicate artifacts, safety is more important than speed.
"Anyone can snap her fingers and yank a soul. I prefer to kill creatively."
—Braids, dementia summoner


The decay of Crovax's ancestral home matched the state of his soul.
When Urza betrayed the Sardian dwarves, they called upon the might of their neighbors for aid.







Not choosing sides in a war can be dangerous—but lucrative.



"The war will be decided here, where the planet's defenses are strongest."
—Marneus Calgar
Watching the spider's web
—Llanowar expression meaning "focusing on the wrong thing"







"It was in Urza's journals that I finally found the secret at the core of the summonings."
—Journal, author unknown



"If the griffins tell of their gods, perhaps they speak of feathers bright as the Sun."
—Afari, *Tales*

In the feudal days of Icatia, finding the Rainbow Vale was often the goal of Knights' quests.
Bant's hearts are as pure as its air and as bright as its skies.
Odric resisted the vampire's curse with all his strength. But after a lifetime of fighting monsters, he was doomed to become one himself.


Whether hunter or hunted, Kathril chooses when it is seen.

No one has properly answered her favorite riddle: "Why should I spare your life?"



"Why listen to the mumblings of wizards when the lash speaks true?"
"The reign of the Swarm begins. Let us rise now and dress ourselves in vengeance."

Good health beckons many a vigorous follower.
The masters weren't speaking figuratively when they said guilt could be all-consuming.

"Innistrad's ghoulcallers are talented enough, but let me show you what someone with real power can create."
—Liliana Vess







An army of squirrels is still an army.


It keeps the upper reaches of the forest free of every menace . . . except for the spider itself.
Don't stand in his way, for his way is full of pointy things and fire.

"For what are leaves but countless blades To fight a countless foe on high."
—Skyshroud hymn
Her subtle smile is suffused with venom.
For wisdom's sake, it was built high to gaze on all things. For glory's sake, it was built high as a testament of power. For strength's sake, it was built high to repel all attacks.

Those who drink from Malfegor's cup are tainted with hunger and stained with lies.


Infinite possibilities contained in a finite space.
Their war forgotten, the nations of Bant stood united in the face of a common threat.

Although long since dead, the banished dissenters finally took their vengeance.
Every contagion has a host.

"My tales of war are the stories most asked for around the fires at night, but they're the ones I care least to tell."



Terisiare has only two kinds of weather: cold and weird.
"The best spot to hook one is right behind the gills."
—Rana Cloudwake, kor skyfisher



"The cost of your opposition will be extracted from your wits."
—Nekusar, the Mindrazer
Outnumbered, but not outmatched.
Kithkin spellbottlers spend half their time preserving old memories and the other half punishing the new.
Silent as a serpent, twisted as a lone bog tree, evil as Tojira's heart.

"The ground grew swampy; hooves and claws sank into the marshy earth. Snarls of rage and bleats of despair echoed through the trees as the waters grew higher and higher."
—Kyliki of Havenwood, "Havenwood Remembered"
The Auriok believe that in the hands of a loxodon, no weapon can be broken.

The scrape of shovels and the tumble of cold dirt soon muffled their pleas.

The true strength of nature is not the raging storm or the charging rhino, but the inexorable vitality of life.





A hunger to soar must be sated.
The traditional kings of the jungle command a healthy respect in other climates as well. Relying mainly on their stealth and speed, Savannah Lions can take a victim by surprise, even in the endless flat plains of their homeland.



The faithful will walk through streams of fire and emerge unscathed.
—Crimson acolyte creed
"The scavengers who first found it called it the 'Bone Crank.' Not a bad name, I'd say."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"You will respect the dead."
The Sunbriar druids believe that every life begins in its heart and ends under its hooves.
"Something down there has an appetite for what we're standing on. Let's hope it doesn't want seconds."
—Samila, Murasa Expeditionary House


"He has been to the heart of the wood. Did you truly expect to wield power over him?"
—Oakhide druid

"It is not that you will go mad. It is that you will beg for madness."
—Volrath
Battle doesn't need a purpose; the battle is its own purpose. You don't ask why a plague spreads or a field burns. Don't ask why I fight.





"They are the first to raise the alarm when the levelers attack, and the first to risk their lives to defend the pride."
—Raksha Golden Cub, leonin kha
Every elf in Shadowmoor is charged from birth with a terrible duty: to strike back against the ugliness and darkness, even though they are all around and seemingly without end.
"Witchcraft or technology, it is blasphemous, and it must be stopped."
—Inquisitor Greyfax



"Though the slivers may sometimes resemble us, they are not human. Anyone who fights them must remember this."
—Sarlena, paladin of the Northern Verge

The first step to peace is to learn how to forget.


Magnetic devices that keep massive golems and structures standing can also be used for the opposite purpose.
Open conflict between expeditionary houses—or even individual adventuring parties—is discouraged, but "accidents" happen.




"The route is direct but challenging. Incidentally, how are you with heights?"
"Strange alliances are alliances still, and provide the same protection."
—King Darien of Kjeldor

"Trust me, your lost fingers and toes are nothing compared to the lost treasures of Sejiri."
—Zahr Gada, Halimar expedition leader


Jace tumbled down the waterfall and plunged deep into his past.


"This world will be ruled by its rightful sovereigns, not these hideous pretenders."










Drink deep, and death will recoil from you.
Somehow goblins found a tactical advantage by sending a clown to war.




As Sigarda and Sorin battled, Arlinn and Teferi recovered the key from the Markov catacombs.

"May Svyelun and her tides favor you."
—Traditional merfolk blessing

"Meat *and* eggs. We eat!"
—Borborygmos
It bends not light but mana, aligning its chaotic currents into the sharp angles necessary for the mystic's purposes.

It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says,


"Any fool can pick up a sword and charge into battle. To emerge alive at the end, that is a gift that comes from leadership and experience."
The ground shuddered violently and the earth seemed to come to life. The elemental force contained in the vast wall of earth was trapped, bent to its controller's will.

"The predator knows the true way of the world. Life is conflict. Only the strong survive."
—Garruk Wildspeaker

Dwarves may teach at the speed of stone, but their results are solid.
"Don't envy the grandeur of drakes. Their impression of grace fades when the first gust sends them crashing into one another."
—Molimo, maro-sorcerer


Places of worship become frenzies of violence as the psychic call of the Hive Mind stirs Genestealer Cults to action.

"Everyone deserves a chance to live. My job is to make sure they get it."
Poets dream the verses of otherworldly stories. Artificers dream the blueprints of otherplanar artifacts.
"Do not touch a drop. Not yet. I want to watch this so-called slayer's last crisis of faith."
—Olivia Voldaren
As the shadow of the Mephidross spread over the Tangle, the vampires' territory expanded.


Nothing can quell the Oriq's thirst for the forbidden secrets of the past.

Hidetsugu never relinquished a grudge. He let it burn within him, gathering ever greater intensity until the final moment of vengeance.
"No matter how big your champion, theirs is bigger. No matter how great your numbers, theirs are greater. No matter how voracious your appetite, they are hungrier. That is why the Eldrazi will win."
—Kalitas, thrall of Ulamog
The demons took no captives and claimed no spoils; they sought only to destroy.
Magic is the true artist's medium.

Witch, werewolf, and cathar stood shoulder to shoulder around the Sungold Lock at the center of the ritual, ready to stop Tovolar's assault—or die trying.

"Know your history. The lessons of the past will shield you in times of doubt."
The native creatures of Zendikar have adapted to live under rocks and crawl through underbrush in order to avoid the most voracious predators. The Eldrazi have yet to make such adjustments.

The oil created the mycosynth. The mycosynth created New Phyrexia.


Like calls to like, and none are forgotten.
The unlabeled vial was not vanilla extract after all.
On guard for larger dangers, we underestimated the power and speed of the imp's muck-crusted claws.


"Give me . . . some skin."
The Fountain had stood in the town square for centuries, but only the pigeons knew its secret.



Made from whiskergill bones, merrow spinebows can fire bolts through tree trunks.

"Bolters? Chainswords? All fine weapons, however I wield a far more dangerous power."

"Vodalian Mages are remarkable. Their merchants bring them arcane lore and devices from across the seas."
—Lydia Wynforth, Mayor of Trokair



"The youths prattle on about heroic deeds, but avoiding the noose is a feat more daring than their entire careers."
—Basarios the Blade




Imitation is the sincerest form of treachery.
Renegades find ever more creative ways to work around the Consulate's aether regulations.
Getting airborne with a kitesail is easy. It's everything afterward that takes focus, skill, and luck.

The Great Furnace's blessing is a spectacular sight, but the best view comes at a high cost.

It is the forest beyond the horizon, the mountain waiting to be climbed, the new land across the endless sea.
Its scars cut deeper than its blade.


Even miles away, if you put your ear to the sewer vents, you can hear the screams and the tempestuous laughter.

Four generations ago, old Split-Tail stole a bundle of scrolls from the Minamo School. Soon after, the first nezumi shamans were born.



"The venom cleanses the sickness from your body, but it will not be pleasant, and you may not survive. Pharika's blessings are fickle."
—Solon, acolyte of Pharika
"I only had time to read half the spell, but I'm pretty sure this will work!"
The last hedron slotted into place, locking Ulamog in an infinite loop of binding energy.
"I cover the land with blankets and it sleeps."




"When you see a raven, head for the hills. It knows when the ghost-tide is headed in."
—Sved, fisherman of Nephalia
Kayla wondered if Urza's repair of the music box was a display of affection, or just of skill.



A beacon of order and safety, for those who can afford it.

The fiercest hunters in the Tangle don't seek out the mantises. They *are* the mantises.

"The time of condemnation is at hand. Dusk washes over the world, and I consign you to eternal darkness!"


When Lorthos emerges from his deepwater realm, the tides bow to his will and the coastline cowers in his presence.

She shepherds mysteries and dust as others would a flock of sheep.



"We can use their hunger to lead them into danger. If we're already prey, we may as well be bait!"
—Yon Basrel, Oran-Rief survivalist
Tritons search for omens in its wake.
Sometimes the mountain takes.
—Keldon saying






"All your steel won't protect you if your will is weak."
"At summer's end, the pegasus herd stampedes across the sky. Their silent footfalls taunt the clouds and bid the rains to come."
—Stormfront fable





The College of Lat-Nam is often forced to expel students whose experiments grow too risky or too cruel.



Among wizards, poor timing is the most consistent mistake.
"Seal the furnace vents. Admit no others. We'll tend our forges without their tainted ways."
—Decree of Urabrask
The Izzet signet is redesigned often, each time becoming closer to a vanity portrait of Niv-Mizzet.
Empowered by generations of strength.
The heart's courage is the soul's guardian.


"Just a moment of perfect grace and sanctity is enough."
—Kal Lior, leonin elder

The thief doubled back twice, doused herself with perfume, crossed the ocean, and still woke up with her pursuer close on her heels.
"The emergence of the Eldrazi isn't necessarily a bad thing, as long as you've already lived a fulfilling and complete life without regrets."
—Javad Nasrin, Ondu relic hunter
Its flight sets the sky itself on fire.
"It's easy to get taken in by the spectacle, to enjoy a bit of naughty amusement. But make no mistake: the Cult of Rakdos is a danger."
—Tajic
"Little flower twirl and bloom, arise from this your rocky tomb. Little warrior slash and brawl, be born again to free us all."
"The Dimir may look all they want. We never grow tired of swatting their bugs."
—Heruj, Selesnya hierophant


"Behold," said Freyalise to Eladamri. "Your Skyshroud home has followed you to Dominaria."
"Better for a doun to lose its cenn than its springjacks."
Though Volrath is long dead, the slivers have become everything he wanted them to be: mindless instruments of destruction and despair.

Wind time's watch, and watch time unwind.
"Aether is the soul of Kaladesh, and all souls should be free."
"Even the rats refuse to set foot inside. I fear to think what might be waiting in there."
—Gravedigger's journal


The ground cracked and unleashed a thousand years of history at once.

"So much for neighborly hospitality!"
The greatest treasure of the deep is an echo from above.
Not all heroes carry swords.
Ig and Burf discovered the technique by accident when Burf reached for his hammer and missed.


"Keep your hands and feet inside me at all times and enjoy the glubbbbrbb! Glbbglubb! Glb!"
Every branch a crossroads, every vine a swift steed.
"Let them send their legions! I will show them that my truth is stronger than their swords."
—General Varchild
Any challenge to Azorius authority is met with swift and potent retribution.
"Do not confuse justice with mercy."
—Odric, Order of Saint Traft
"Now that I have your attention, perhaps I can tell you of the Order."


"From here, let the world be reborn."


The giants believe the fossils they find in Lorwyn's rocky heights are dreams frozen in time, and they treasure them.
The Voldaren torture pits are so expansive that prisoners have a nasty tendency to be forgotten for years.

Assault and battery included.

"The spirit of Serra raised Brindri high and commanded her to keep the balance."
—*Song of All*, canto 524
One night Oona bottled the sky. The next night she aligned the stars and released it.
"Prayer rarely explains."
—Orim, Samite healer
"Now that it has woken up and wandered off, we should go see what it was guarding."
—Gotzen, Bulwark explorer
"Why do they say you shouldn't play with fire? Fire is the best thing to play with!"
It takes no prisoners, but it keeps the choicest bits for Phyrexia.
A full coffin is like a full coffer-both are attractive to thieves.
An adventure without a companion is hardly an adventure at all.

"I concede it was a cheap shot, but it was the only one I could afford."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*



"They may show up with the wrong thigh bone or mandible, but they always show up."
—Zul Ashur, lich lord
Skulkins confer strange benefits on unsuspecting patrons.
Slicking the ice with its heated underside, the thermopod skates at great speed to overtake its prey.
"After death you face paradise, damnation, or Tariel."
—Priest's teaching


Just as the evil ones approached to slay Justina, she cast a great spell, imbuing her weapons with her own life force. Thus she fulfilled the prophecy: "In the death of your savior will you find salvation."
Many an ancient treasure has been reduced to jagged caltrops by its snapping jaws.

His marvels of artifice pale in comparison to the developing machinery of his mind.

The pirates of the Brazen Coalition are the descendants of those displaced by the Legion of Dusk, and they are eager for vengeance.

"Never leave the future to fate."
"Mine."
The last thought to go through their victim's mind is the one they tear out through the scalp.
"Your concern for my safety is touching, but as long as your gunners remain reliably erratic, I see no reason to change course."
—Admiral Yelise, to Commodore Axurik

It's not a carpet moth, it's a feature.



"Time flows like a river. In Tolaria we practice the art of building dams."
—Barrin, master wizard


"In these bloodstains I will find the fingerprints of our oppressors."
—Anowon, the Ruin Sage

When harpies demand a toll to cross through their territory, consider yourself lucky if they permit payment in coin.


"Lord Bolas has shown me how each miserable little life holds untold resources."

It is the harbinger of disease, not the carrier.
"Life as we know it dangles on the brink of extinction. We must show the strength they would steal from us."
—*The Invokers' Tales*


The flame of anger is hard to douse once lit.
Cowards watch. Heroes act.
Tawnos finally cracked the puzzle: the strange structures did not house Mishra's malevolent creations but were themselves among his creations.
"Virile in war, he kept the north in fear; His prodigies subdued the western sphere."
As haunting as a zombie's curse.

"It's my goal to find the melting point of every substance."




In the depths of Rootwater, salvage and sewage differ only in texture.

The sea's reach extends beyond its shores.
An indrik's howl has destructive power much subtler than that of its crushing foot.

"Here you go. Can't have you sleeping through your own wedding day."

"When the land is angry, so are they."
—Nissa Revane
"We shall persevere."

Tidal forces of the blood moon wrench and buckle the land, drawing monoliths of stone and soil toward the flaming orb.
"It generates power by harnessing the nature of possibility itself."
"But will it work?"
". . . Possibly."

Even as humans regained the upper hand, some still willingly traded their lives for a chance at immortality.


Then the maiden bade him cast off his robes and cover his body with fishliver oil, that he might safely follow her into the sea.
"She is truly Wirewood's child now."
—Elvish refugee
Bobbing merrily from opponent to opponent, the scimitar began adding playful little flourishes to its strokes; it even turned a couple of somersaults.


"Meat sustains the body. The spirit requires different sustenance."
—Arel the Whisperer
The forest lives in the elf as the elf lives in the forest.

Deep beneath the ice, beneath the soil and the rock, Dominaria's fire still burned hot.






The staccato clatter of its metal claws on pavement is unmistakable.
"Our pyromancer's flames may not have killed them, but they bought us the time we needed."
—*The War Diaries*


"There is no confusion as to the boundary of the archmage's territory."
—Ippin, master cartographer
"Druids endure disaster as seeds endure winter. Now Krosa blooms once more."





"Our own selves are the greatest obstacles to enlightenment."
—Narset, khan of the Jeskai
One of the greatest steeds in the empire, Red Hare could travel a thousand *li* a day and climb hills as if running on flat ground.
"Mortal strength, like mortal hope, is so easily crushed."
—Thassa, god of the sea

"Those that fall short of perfection can still contribute to the Great Work."
—Keskit, the Flesh Sculptor
"You think these walls will protect you?
My, you have a dim view of the power of the wilds."
—Marawen, barrow witch
It doesn't need to use its venom—it just needs you to know it can.

The thunder of its hooves beats dreams into despair.

Born from the oldest red cedar, nursed on the sap of the tallest spruce, coronated under the mightiest pine.

In a withered world, the scent of healthy prey is enough to drive a predator to frenzy.
Tarek could not tell whether he was losing his blood or his mind.
Accustomed to battling before an audience in the arena, Iroas's champions know how to put on a good show.
"So the vampires like hot blood, do they? Let's see how they handle ours."
"The gift of life must be freely given. Anything less would diminish us all."
—Arin, Selesnya healer
Whether trained, ridden, or eaten, few goblin military innovations have rivaled the bug.





"From a tiny sprout, the greatest trees grow and flourish. May the seeds of your mind be equally fruitful."
"Your deed cannot be undone. You, however, can be."
—Agosto, Azorius imperator



Merfolk don't always know what they're looking for, but they're certain once they find it.


"The chest cavity is cleared of useless meat. I know just what to do with the space."
—Gyed, Vault Priest


The Dimir agents watched from the shadows. "Eight hours, and I've yet to see him blink," Nefara hissed. "I suggest we find another way in."



"With a twitch of its muscles, its timeline forks. Then, just as quickly, its two selves reintegrate. Causality, strangely, seems not to mind."
—Rukarumel, field journal


"Though their ideals are leagues apart, Urza's and Mishra's creations have a surprising harmony with one another."
—Tocasia, journal entry


"The scholars wept when we destroyed the hedron. I had no such pity. What would this world be like had we done so sooner?"
—*The War Diaries*
"The pen is mightier than the crown."






The Order of Saint Traft cleared the roads of cultists and horrors, opening the way for the villagers to flee Thraben.




"Slow the Consulate with whatever you've got!"
—Jasi Ganin, master siphoner
"STUFF AND SUNDRIES AND MUNITIONS!"
—Breeches, gunner of the *Belligerent*

His arrows whistle like a serpent's hiss.
He marks his territory with fire and wrath, etching the mountainside with his charring breath.
Knowledge can't be kept in a bottle or sealed in a box. It yearns to be spread and shared.
Even on Esper, there are those who eschew the use of magic in favor of simpler methods.


"How many claws does a monster have? Exactly one more than you've accounted for."
—Alux, Skysail defender

"We don't cut through Sedgemoor anymore. Can't get five steps without a groff trying to fight its own reflection."
On the continent of Tazeem, rushing waters plunge through narrow canyons into mist-cloaked lakes.
Better scarves than scars.
"Gone today, here tomorrow."
—Ertai, wizard adept


Olka collected the evening mist for years, studying its secrets. Once she learned its essence, she could vanish with a thought.

"I assure you, these are not the kind that thrive on sunlight and water."





The vines overgrew the construct, snapping gears and soaking up aether.

An assassin is a king's most trusted courier, ensuring his messages are heard by even the most unwilling recipients.

"Our thrulls dissolve from the inside out in a matter of days. Shoddy work, but they're a scream while they last."
—Uzric, Rakdos guildmage
"The Ancestors are the wisdom of the tribe and the soul of the Homelands. I am eternally in their debt."
—Taysir





"Welcome to the Dimir Public Offices. Not responsible for death or loss of property. Basement off-limits."
—Sign outside Dinrova Building
Want all, lose all.
—Zhalfirin aphorism
Since they haven't seen their original master for millennia, golems are eager to take orders from anyone.

"We are a clachan of smiths. The forge is as comfortable to us as a small fire during a cool winter's evening."
Teferi wanted no part of Urza's battle plans, but both agreed the Phyrexian portal must be closed.



"That bear's been there since the Astrotorium opened. I've seen it move."
—Ernst, deep fry cook

All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.

He is devious and cunning, in both appearance and deed. Beware the Warbeard, for this brute bites as well as he barks!



The light of reason follows them even into battle.


The rampaging Roil creates life out of the most volatile elements.
Sins that would be too gruesome in the light of day are made more pleasing in the dark of night.

It's viciously territorial, destroying every creature on the mountain it has chosen to consume.



Ogres are driven by passion, rage, and another ogre standing behind them with a whip.
The sound of its plated tail beating on desert rocks is often mistaken for the footfalls of a much larger predator.
"The soul is only as eternal as I say it is."
—Sharuum the Hegemon
Among Godo's hordes, "beware of falling rocks" came to mean "akki live nearby."




The most terrifying thing about the Craw Wurm is probably the horrible crashing sound it makes as it speeds through the forest. This noise is so loud it echoes through the trees and seems to come from all directions at once.
"It'll get us to the portal, but I can't guarantee what it'll do to the ship."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator


To outrace the griffin
—Kipamu expression meaning "to do the impossible"

The continent of Guul Draz is a geothermal swampland reeking of heat and decay.
"You're willing to die for your homeland. I'm willing to kill for it."
—Latulla, Keldon overseer


Some fishers like to eat eels, and some eels like to eat fishers.
"I don't think they'll appreciate my . . . adjustments."
—Karavin, renegade saboteur
Zombies have one speed: shamble.

"You don't want to know what happens after I put on the goggles."

. . . but the price of Mangara's freedom was Asmira's life.



The weapon wields the hand that holds it.
"We speak the dragons' language of flame and rage. They speak our language of fury and honor. Together we shall weave a tale of destruction without equal."

Kuldotha, wellspring of molten metal, temple of the goblin horde.



"The key to unlocking this puzzle is within you."
—Doriel, mentor of Mistral Isle
"Uh, does anyone have a flute?"
—Rana, Suq'Ata market fool
They fought with the desperate courage of those who have nothing left to lose.

"As long as my hand holds a blade, there's hope for a pure Mirrodin once again."
"Monsters dwell in every heart. We only think civilization tames them." ―Euphemia, Nexus watcher


Though a fierce fighter, its true value is that it inspires beleaguered forces.

"The faith of Serra is borne on wings of hope."
—Gulsen, abbey matron
"The bonds of loyalty can tie one to the grave."
—Crovax, ascendant evincar
It woke to find a vast world in need of a master.
"Should you take it in mind to ride a springjack, remember: there are easier ways to fly, and harder ways to break your skull."
—Lann of Cloverdell
"When the spires have burned and the cobblestones are dust, he will take his rightful place as king of the wilds."
—Kirce, Axebane guardian
The undercity is always hungry.
Even a fragment of a powerstone contains within it not just energy, but space—vast dimensions trapped in fragile crystal.
It's seen the wonders of entire worlds trapped in the depths of a bottomless ocean.



Beneath Ravnica's streets runs a layer of tunnels, then caverns and waterways, then terrors and nightmares.

"Die. But die knowing that your pathetic life will yield a great bounty for me."
—Zul Ashur, lich lord

The lion blinked
—Femeref expression meaning "situation avoided"
"In your final breath you still have something to offer Phyrexia."
—Afari, *Tales*




"A blast, an echo . . . then silence."

"There are always more like you."
—Modriss of Zargoth Fen


"Don't look at it! Maybe it'll go away!"
—Ib Halfheart, Goblin Tactician




"It would take another apocalypse to stop the slivers now."
—Riptide Project researcher

"Hail to the true queen! Long may she reign!"


"Crovax seems filled only with shadows," thought Orim. "Where does his strength come from?"



Each scar on its hide is a badge of honor.











"I prefer to weave my magic through oni blood, but yours will do in a pinch."

The calligraphy of combat is written with strokes of sudden blood.

On Fiora, no matter is settled until King Brago offers an opinion.
A single tantiv is just as dangerous as a herd.
Beneath the beauty of light and seed is the might of Vitu-Ghazi.



"I won't abandon the *Weatherlight*. My destiny is to serve at Jhoira's side. This 'illness' means I must trust my faith more and myself less."
"Um … oh … what was I saying?"
—Reveka, Wizard Savant


Shopping List
Lamp-hand attachment
X-ray contact lenses
Discount death ray
Two-headed hammer
Kitten-fish


"They don't even feel the cut. I'm ordering a drink in a nearby tavern before anyone notices something's wrong."
Centuries ago, a mad god offered a simple trade.


"Urza fortified every thirty miles on the path to Tomakul, creating a network of trenches the brothers would trade for decades."
—*The Antiquities War*
Centuries ago, a barbarian laid his rage to rest.
The power of the wild, concentrated in a single charge.



Mage-students who see spellcraft as the highest form of expression choose Prismari, the college of elemental arts.

He knows the name of every elf born in the last four centuries. More importantly, they all know his.
"The southern fortress taken by invaders? Heh, sure . . . when elephants fly."
—Brezard Skeinbow, captain of the guard



The sea filled the villagers' nets until the day it cast its own.
"So great is its power, only the chosen can wield it and live."
—Avram Garrisson, Leader of the Knights of Stromgald
"Frankly, destruction is best left to professionals."
—Jaya Ballard, Task Mage


"The darkness crawls with vampires and ghouls, but we are not without allies."
—Mikaeus, the Lunarch

The mansion's vaulted ceilings provided the perfect cover for an ambush.

2013 Vintage Championship Winner

Sometimes death comes knocking. Sometimes it tears down the walls.

"If it is weak, either kill it or ignore it. Anything else honors it."
—Kaervek

After years of silence, the caves once again echo with the grisly sounds of Phyrexians preparing for war.





The bond between spellcaster and familiar allows the mage to detect even the smallest of magical ripples—and use them to their advantage.


"Secrets? What secrets?"

"There is great wisdom in rushing headlong into combat . . . if you're prepared."
—Kenjek, captain of the Thousand Swords
"I know they're unstoppable fighters created to harvest souls—it's just they're so rude about it."
—Kaya
It's not the two heads you should fear. It's the four fangs.
"From in here, everything looks like dinner."



"Some have said there is no subtlety to destruction. You know what? They're dead."
—Jaya Ballard, task mage
"I'd sooner lock lips with a viper. At least I might walk away from *that*."
—Elvish scout
Unaware of Lorwyn's diversity, it sees only itself, reflected a thousand times over.

Those who move harmoniously with the flow of aether can channel the power of the natural world.







It soars through currents of moonbeams to give hope to the forsaken.
"Be silent and listen to your inner fire. Only then can you walk the Path of Flame."

"Your life is finished, your name lost, and your work forgotten. It is as though Mazeura never existed."
—*Chainer's Torment*
When defeat is near and guidance is scarce, all eyes look in one direction.

"The hermit dies. The outcast dies. The lone wolf dies. Only those who stick together survive this world."
—Uros, Pendelhaven elder
The Furnace of Rath is periodically illuminated by their sparkling yawns.

It is like life and destiny: we think we know the story, but we have read only half the tale.
"Twice I have let the Legacy slip away. Never again."
—Karn, silver golem
The tools of invention became the weapons of revolution.
Light's champion in the stronghold of darkness.

Kasmina had encouraged the twins to apply. Strixhaven would test not only their magical potential, but also their character.
"The minute I heard my first love story,
I started looking for you, not knowing
how blind that was.
Lovers don't finally meet somewhere.
They're in each other all along."
—Rumi
Don't try to cut in. They'll cut back.



The sun-hot glow radiated from the druids, leaving scattered metal in steaming pools as it passed.
"We see the same sky as you, just through a different lens."

"You may call me a fool, selling this stuff on Orzhov turf. Well, you need to be a little reckless to survive."
"Gold without freedom might as well be lead."
—Angrath


"My flock flew from a distant continent ruined by cataclysm and war. Benalia gave us shelter to end our exodus."
The chant was incomprehensible, but its power was unmistakable.

He knows the name of every elf born in the last four centuries. More importantly, they all know his.


Lacking trained pterons, the Auriok had to rely on other measures to gain the upper hand in the skies.

"If there is such a thing as too much power, I have not discovered it."
—Volrath



"I appreciate things that exceed expectations."
—Mizzix
Some timelines forever fray, branch, and intermingle. Others end abruptly.

If it could capture the power it wastes, it would be invincible.

When you have given everything, then you have everything to gain.
—Well inscription







The only sound was the gentle clicking of the Faeries' wings. Then those intruders who were still standing turned and fled. One thing was certain: they didn't think the Scryb were very funny anymore.



"Be careful what information you ask them to find, for it will likely be the subject of tale time at the alehouse."
—Sirislav, Dimir spy
Not all spiders need webs to catch their prey.


The foundries of Kaladesh run like clockwork under the supervision of their formidable overseers.
"As the cavalry bore down, we faced them with swords drawn and pikes hidden in the grass at our feet. 'Don't lift your pikes 'til I give the word,' I said." —Maeveen O'Donagh, *Memoirs of a Soldier*

"You will fully understand fear when you discover it is the final thing you put your faith in."
—Nicol Bolas

When the price of your sins comes due, the Church of Deals is there to collect.


Driven by rage, directed by his emperor's claw.

Don't cross him or you'll end up sleeping with the merfolk.
"We have confiscated your spells as evidence. Once we conclude our investigation, you may petition to have them returned."

When the Boros Legion attacks, swiftblades enter the fray first. They pick off the archers and mages, softening the enemy front before the flame-kin and giants go in.
"Every object has an echo in the Æther beyond the world. Every idea has a shadow that can be brought to light."


Neave Blacktalon is a single-minded hunter and slayer of the enemy's most powerful lords.
Geists of the hanged often haunt the tree on which they died.


A full coffin is like a full coffer—both are attractive to thieves.
"Wrath is no vice when inflicted upon the deserving."
"Our belief shall be the lance that pierces Volrath's heart."

It speaks no commands but is always obeyed.
"The soul of Jukai reaches far beyond the forest's edge."
—Shigeki, Jukai visionary
The least popular goblins get the outer caves.

"We have inherited the mysteries of the Thran, but few of the answers."
—Jhoira
Doing something at the last minute isn't so bad when you can make that minute last.
Moving without sound, swift figures pass through branches and undergrowth completely unhindered. One with the trees around them, the Dryads of Shanodin Forest are seen only when they wish to be.
When the ruins awakened, so did their defenses.

Don't try to outrun one of Dominia's Grizzlies; it'll catch you, knock you down, and eat you. Of course, you could run up a tree. In that case you'll get a nice view before it knocks the tree down and eats you.


The famed hunting hounds of House Cecani continue to prove the quality of their pedigree.


At the instant of death, the mystery of life.
Flash like daybreak to the fray.
—Motto of the Knights of Dawn
Its blast can fuse armor to bone, leaving skeletons that glint brightly in the sun.

Do the glowing trinkets show it the way home, or do they set a twisted path for someone else to follow?
"Yesterday you were just a figment of your master's imagination. I liked you better then."
—Shai Fusan, archmage
Its hooves touch the earth only when a hero must rise.

The clouds grew thick, and then they grew teeth.




"Belief matters more than truth. Every moment, belief in imaginary things alters lives while truth sits unnoticed and waits."
—Hakim, Loreweaver
"My cause is simple: To stop you, at any cost, from ever seeing the inside of this keep."
"I call upon the vigor of the grasses, the hopes of the flowers, and the dreams of the trees."




"What root and branch cannot reach, our winged friends will attend to."
—Zunak, Selesnya strategist
The calm comes after the storm.


"Memnarch or the vedalken salvage most of the large machines, leaving us only scraps. Scraps are enough."
"We do not believe in hiding our wealth in the shadows. This is Orzhov, and this is how we reward greatness."
—Teysa Karlov, Grand Envoy of Orzhov






"The flames are a gift from my companion. They won't hurt me. You, on the other hand..."


It can pass through solid matter—but that doesn't mean it's harmless.

"I like goblins. They make funny little popping sounds when they die."
—Braids, dementia summoner


"Well, this can't be a good sign."
—Old Rutstein

There are medicines for all afflictions but idleness.
—Suq'Ata saying
Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.
"Give me wings to fly and speed to strike. In return, the glory I earn shall be yours."
—Steinar Icefist, Balduvian shaman
The light sigh of its breath whistles through its bones.




This spell, like many attributed to Drafna, was actually the work of his wife and former student, Hurkyl.

Ages ago, a party of elves took cover to let one pass. They're still waiting.
"You will learn to earn death."
—Volrath
"Seaborne ships have their dolphins to dance in their wakes; I have my duskriders."
—Sisay, journal
"It's hard to keep our own troops from fleeing when he's like this. How can our foes possibly stand against him?"
—Field marshal for the Eastern Paladin


Doom casts its own flickering shadow.




"Always carry two spears."
—Mokgar, Kalonian hunter

She stands as a living symbol of the natural world and an enemy of the forces that threaten it.
Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti Djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.

In Mishra's desperation to destroy his brother, he allowed Gix to destroy him instead.
Some worlds possess a hidden core where life's essence constantly surges.
"There is much to learn here, but few can endure the ringing of the spires."
—Nulakam the Archivist


For the necromancer barons, killing and recruitment are one and the same.

"In the game of conquest, who cares about the pawns if the king yet reigns?"
—Geth, keeper of the Vault
"You wish to remember this lesson? I will write it down for you."
—Senifet, vizier of Bontu
"So many corpses, so little time."
"Sure, I've seen agents of the Cabal here and there. Well, not here, and certainly not in any of the sliver labs. Oh dear, I've said too much."
—Apprentice researcher
The Genestealer Cults rejoiced at the arrival of their gods . . . at first.
The Frogtossers thread feathers, bones, and trophies from past raids into their standards, believing they fuel the warren with the anger of its victims.

"Ravnica, like a hedge, must be pruned, leaving only leaves of verdant uniformity."
—Niszka, Selesnya evangel
When the defenses around Lurenbraum Fortress faltered, the Crimson Ballroom received some unexpected guests.


Some tides need no moon.




"On every plane, there are those who run toward danger."
—Gideon Jura
We had taken refuge in a small cave, thinking the entrance was too narrow for it to follow. To our horror, its gigantic head smashed into the mountainside, ripping itself a new entrance.
"No one can fight the tide forever."

"I see more than others do because I know where to look."
—Saprazzan vizier
For all their planning, Tamiyo and Kaito were unprepared to face the full power of a Phyrexian praetor.
"This 'standing windstorm' can hold us off indefinitely? Ridiculous!" Saying nothing, she put a pinch of salt on the table. With a bang she clapped her hands, and the salt disappeared, blown away.


"Fire will eventually destroy a zombie, but a fiery zombie destroys a lot of other things first."
—Rem Karolus, Blade of the Inquisitors
"A keen mind wields an army as a deft hand wields a sword."

The continent of Ondu is a vast plateau crisscrossed by deep trenches and meandering rivers.
"He blows a gust across the cliff to vanish in a breath of wind."
—"Song of the Wind Being"

The wizard's spellbook was full of burning questions.




"Great steel is born in the hottest forges. Great soldiers are born in war."

Every scar is a lesson, every battle a test of what you have learned.
Healers ultimately acquire the divine gifts of spiritual and physical wholeness. The most devout are also granted the ability to pass physical wholeness on to others.

The power of a waterfall. The fury of an avalanche. The intellect of a gale-force wind.

「時がばらばらに引き裂かれた世界では、破壊がすべての心を支配した。」
—-多元宇宙の形而上史学
This storm blows gales through the dreams of men.
Takenuma was filled with a chorus of moans, shrieks, and wails. Some came from the living, some from the dying, and some, most horribly, from the dead.
"Shine bright, bolts tight."
In a world devoid of sun, illumination comes from cheerless fires or the wandering spirits of the dead.


A steel snake with ten thousand teeth.
Fools believe that Kolaghan's brood follows lightning storms. The wise know that it is the other way around.







"Close your ears to the voice of greed, and you can turn a gift for one into a gift for many."

Just as the evil ones approached to slay Justina, she cast a great spell, imbuing her weapons with her own life force. Thus she fulfilled the prophecy: "In the death of your savior will you find salvation."




"Why waste time creating weapons? Nature provides us with all we need."
—Centaur warrior











"It is evidence that some pure corner of the world must still exist."
—Djeru, former Tah-crop initiate
"My adopted children are loved no less."
—Pharika, god of affliction


First the insult, then the encore.
"Don't you know first-years pay a toll to walk through here?"
"Don't worry, your death will be as informative as possible."
—Gorghul, augur of skulls
Thoughtweft gives new meaning to the phrase "common knowledge."






The Hold, an illegal research facility in a derelict merchant ship, became a wellspring of renegade intelligence.

"Sumptuous, carefully fermented, and served with a silky ocular puree. You simply must try a bite."
—Varina, Lich Queen

The rain is driven like nails.
Fierce when roused, this breed of kavu is easily distracted by a strong voice or melodic tune.








That which lasts longest serves best.
"The dead make good soldiers. They can't disobey orders, they never surrender, and they don't stop fighting when a random body part falls off."
—Nevinyrral,
*Necromancer's Handbook*



"Nothing could be more natural than roots sucking nourishment from the dead."
—Savra


"This close to Rimewind Keep, no avalanche is nature's doing."
—Ukoten, centaur chieftain
The realms protected by druids of the Circle of Dreams are gleaming, fruitful places, where dream and reality blur together and the weary can find rest.

"There will come soft rains, and spring shall be amongst us, a welcome friend."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest



Iroas and Mogis are as different in appearance as they are in personality.


"These benighted worlds are thick with ignorance. I will educate them. They will listen, or they will die."

"With friends like these, who needs people?"

"Its gems didn't stop pulsating until they were completely removed."
—Tolarian research notes

"I came seeking a challenge. All I found was you."
—Zurgo, khan of the Mardu
It's not always gold the thief is after.
A blazing sun that never sets.
"A life is measured by the lives it saves."


"I run the maze alone, but I fight with the full might of the Legion."


"That phantom prow split the storm as lightning cast its long shadow on the battlefield below."
—Mireille Gaetane, *The Valeriad*


Esper is an expansive canvas painted by precise, controlling hands.
"Sir, I just thought . . . ," explained Vhati. "Don't think," interrupted Greven. "It doesn't suit you."



The nomads' funeral pyres are more practical than ceremonial.
"Mizzium may be impervious to fire, but obviously certain other things can . . . modify its form."
—Ivos Koba, indrik handler
A minotaur does not distinguish between human, satyr, and triton. They are all meat.

Quintorius was a daydreamer, far happier digging through history books than practicing battle tactics. He agreed with the military academy on only one thing: he did not belong in their ranks.


The surprise of a battle cry can be as deadly as a blade.


"My horizon was the arcing petals, my new home resplendent with spires of weeds and pillows of fragrant pollen."
—Naimah, Femeref philosopher



The smallest seed of regret can bloom into redemption.
The clerics saw her as a divine gift. She saw them only as allies in her war against Phage.


Two things are needed to survive the harsh skies of Rath: a thick hide and a thicker skull.




It gathers hues from the twilight mist so that its master can paint a better world.
"To wage war, secure peace within yourself."
—Emmara
"Hallowed be this assemblage of various stuff!"
Life's circle has become inverted in Grixis. The same energy is endlessly recycled and becomes more stagnant with each pass.

"I am reminded of the fable of the silver egg. Its owner cracks it open to see what jewels it holds, only to discover a simple yellow yolk."
—Karn, silver golem
Lukka looked out from the parapet and saw not a monster to be put down, but a fierce kind of beauty.

The forest grew fangs. The sky spread its wings.
"Your creations are effective, Sheoldred, but we must unite the flesh, not merely flay it."
—Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite


"The spirit of the stone is the spirit of strength."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain

If you're looking for it, it's available. The question is how much you're willing to pay.



The smallest seed of regret can bloom into redemption.
"Our newfound security enables us to turn more of our attentions to the wonders that lie deep within the soil."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
Choosing a college based on Mage Tower results is discouraged, but not unheard of.

Born from the oldest red cedar, nursed on the sap of the tallest spruce, coronated under the mightiest pine.
"An innocent man died because of my anger. That knowledge will haunt me for all eternity."
—Karn, silver golem


"The final stage of the illness: delirium, convulsions, and death."
—Phyrexian progress notes




"The East Wind, an interloper in the dominions of Westerly Weather, is an impassive-faced tyrant with a sharp poniard held behind his back for a treacherous stab."
—Joseph Conrad, *The Mirror of the Sea*

"I never thought I'd spend my life fighting. I'm a maker, not a destroyer."
"Lost in the woods" is an optimistic way to describe a villager's disappearance. "Found in the woods" is frequently more appropriate.
"Unsafe Terrain Ahead—Turn Back"
—Sign near the former location of Pyrtagh Cairn


"Nobody ever listens to my complaints! Not even when I use the listening stick."

The ever-watchful center of a growing web of eyes.

Giving a thing wings does not take away its fear of flight—or its fear of fire, for that matter.


"When a sliver of this breed enters the hive, the others claw each other in frenzied fits, thereby ensuring their rapid growth."
—Rukarumel, field journal

The guards kindled the hearth and locked the door to Ellwen's chamber. By morning, the fire was out and Ellwen was gone.


Through failure we learn our finest lessons in humility.


It conducts the souls of the righteous to their blessed rest and the spirits of the evil to justice.

The Oracle told Eladamri he would save his people by abandoning them. His followers adopted that ideal.
"There is no power too great to be used in the defense of our ancestral lands."
Urza knew Phyrexians would come through the air and sent his soldiers to greet them.
The ground erupted in time with the hedron's thrum, a dirge of the last days.
The smallest seed of regret can bloom into redemption.
Pray her spear reaches you first. Her griffin is less kind.
"My dragonlord is immortal. Most dragons are not."
—Kadri, Dromoka warrior

It leaps from tree to tree, revealing the enemy's positions.
His roots reach deep and grip hard.





Depending on your point of view, the seal represents a proud guardian of the natural cycle or one who has sold her soul to darkness for eternal life.
Madness and genius are separated only by degrees of success.


Iname rejoices in the dawn of a new life, but soon becomes jealous of the simple joys denied him by his station. So the cycle begins anew.


"I've already seen so much evil, so much darkness. Why do you insist on adding more?"
—Nissa Revane, to Dwynen

The earth cannot hold that which magic commands.
"Archers, ballistae—you can't even get near the island of Avenant."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*

A faerie is the offspring of Oona and mischief.




"Stop thinking like an artificer, Urza, and start thinking like a father!"
—Rayne, Academy Chancellor



"Thorn bushes spring up wherever the army has passed. Lean years follow in the wake of a great war."
—Lao Tzu, Tao Te Ching, trans. Feng and English




"We must rely on our own knowledge, not on the dogma of the seekers or the mutterings of the sphinxes."
—Tullus of Palandius
Forged by divine hands to wander mortal realms.
"Children of the Ruins, raised to be warriors, know that life begins when another speaks their names."
—Soltari *Tales of Life*
If at first you don't succeed, run away and hide.




"Pave your path to the throne with yet another body if you must, Sarevok. It will make your stolen godhood no less false."
—Gorion, wise mentor
Before religion or civilization, there was order.

On Bant, a sigil is both a prize of honor and a bond of duty. The one who bears it may be called to fulfill that charge at any moment.

Good bodyguards are hard to find, mainly because they don't live long.
"It is terrible how one brief action can live forever in memory."
—Jolrael
Even the lost and undead need a protector.
"The veil of death hides little from our kind."
She keeps the festival's revels from faltering, infusing the witches' rituals with hope.
Of royal blood amongst the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti Djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.
Zendikar's defenders include both healers and vampires. One way or another, the fallen will return to the fight.


"Heidar has forced the sun into hiding, but it has not forgotten us."
Windgrace's gladehunters hibernate in the quagmires of Urborg until the scent of Phyrexian technology awakens their hunger.




Step 1: Find your cousin. Step 2: Get your cousin in the cannon. Step 3: Find another cousin.
Fire Elementals are ruthless infernos, annihilating and consuming their foes in a frenzied holocaust. Crackling and blazing, they sear swift, terrible paths, leaving the land charred and scorched in their wake.

"I don't want what I don't have. I want more of what I *do* have."
She wears the talismans of every creature she can evoke.
When giant sinkholes opened across Ravnica, they revealed buried oceans and the merfolk, once thought to be extinct.
"My people have always been here, and here we shall remain."




"Boat's burning! Row faster!"


Inside even the humblest goblin lurks the potential for far greater things—and far worse.

"Only fools and bandits use roads."
"The embers of our homes still smolder, and already the villages of Kjeldor burn in retaliation. What they have started, we will finish."
—Lovisa Coldeyes

"Focus an enemy's mind on what's already gone, and it's easier to take away more."
—Holux, stronghold racketeer
"I wish I could take credit for it, but nature progresses on its own, just the way it should."
—Vorinclex, Voice of Hunger
For the first and last time, the horrific creature experienced terror.


"Nothing ruins your day like a blazing zombie."
—Tahngarth
"Let their mindless armies come and face the might of genius."
—Varil, Neurok partisan
Deciding the house's ownership through a wizard duel had sounded like a brilliant idea at the time.


All the world is Purphoros's anvil.
They are the first to greet dissenters on their journey into exile.

"Soaring is wasted on the winged."
—Edric, Spymaster of Trest


Listen at its walls and you will hear the whispers of gods.
Better potent than predictable.
"Three such creatures stood burning at the crest of the hill. Only seconds later, the fireball struck our front line."
—Lydia, Countess Brellis
The wafting smells are both scrumptious and suspicious.
"That which is beautiful in form can also be deadly."
—Ishai, Ojutai dragonspeaker







Believing they wrote the forged letter that had been stolen from Zhou Yu, Cao Cao rashly executed his two best admirals for treason.











The Agents of S.N.E.A.K.—Subpar, Notoriously Evil Agent Killers.


Crystals nestle in the roots of Indatha's helica trees as if being nurtured by their embrace.
'Twas in the bogs of Cannelbrae My mate did meet an early grave 'Twas nothing left for us to save In the peat-filled bogs of Cannelbrae.

"Just when I get them working, they always start fighting and tearing at each other for spare parts."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator
"All are not equal—neither in life nor after death. Bontu's favorites will stand highest in eternity."
—Senifet, vizier of Bontu
"You call it luck. I call it preparation."
Sometimes the greatest strength is the strength of conviction.

"We are many, and righteous."


He was born of the Mirari, thrust out of his homeland before he was even aware. Left without purpose or meaning, he found both in the pits.
"The forest has as many eyes as leaves."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight*
Speed and fire are always a deadly combination.
His blood boiled over, and he erupted with fists of stone.
"Measure the angles carefully. Note the gauge of the paper. By your sixth birthday, I expect a flying prototype."
—Tawnos, letter to Harbin

The few surviving humans of Krov would have welcomed the return of winter and its sterilizing cold. They often peered northward, hoping that the snow's edge had reached their infested city-tomb.
"Every failure, every death only makes my strength greater."

It's easy to tell the difference between the devious cephalids and the trustworthy ones. The trustworthy ones are dead.
"Do I really look like that? I'm . . . beautiful!"
You embrace power at any cost, and if it consumes you, so be it.






"Some say it's better to think before you act. While those people are considering all the options, that's usually when I kill them."
—Dravus, lava mage
"Ah, this is a nice life. I can see why you were so desperate to keep it."
Those who love the woods only wish to spread its majesty.
I tell you, there was so many arrows flying about you couldn't hardly see the sun. So I says to young Angus, "Well, at least now we're fighting in the shade!"
"Some goblins are expendable. Some are impossible to get rid of. But he's both—at the same time!"
—Starke

All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.

"In these halls there is no pass or fail. Your true test comes with the first full moon."

"Were they to reduce us to ash, we would clog their throats and sting their eyes in payment."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
"Hold the high ground, then bring it to your enemy"
—Surrak, khan of the Temur



"Soul, flesh, even eyes—none of these are strictly necessary for deadly precision."
—Modriss of Zargoth Fen





The blessed union of gun, claw, and merciless intent is a force to be truly feared.
"Angels are simply extensions of truth upon the fabric of life—and there is far more dark than light."
—Baron Sengir
Ranger wisdom dictates that when fleeing from a moss-beast, you must stay calm, find your bearings, and run south.


He calls a riddle through the gaps of cloven clouds, hoping for an answer.
She keeps the festival's revels from faltering, infusing the witches' rituals with hope.
"Vow your allegiance to true power."
Ob Nixilis smiled. It had been over one thousand years since his last conquest.
The strength of the one is the strength of the many.
Rumors quickly spread among thieves about a labyrinth without walls and a prize beyond all measures of worth.

Initiates once believed defeat was the worst fate possible—a sentiment they quickly abandoned.






Most goblins can light a fuse and run, but only the cleverest remember to drop the bomb.

It wasn't long before the taverns of High and Dry were full of whispers about the new captain who could turn a person to stone with a glance.
Enter and rejoice! The Conclave stands united, open to one and all.
The forest was too lush for the brothers to despoil —almost.
A bit of pain never hurts.

All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.


"The dead make good soldiers. They can't disobey orders, never surrender, and don't stop fighting when a random body part falls off."
—Nevinyrral, *Necromancer's Handbook*

"I desire the acquisition of a potassium-rich fruit comestible of *substantial* magnitude."
In a castle that prizes loyalty above all, the bond between knight and griffin is unmatched.

Even the dead are raw materials for the Phyrexian vision of perfection.

"Your thoughts betray you."
—Illulia of Nighthearth


"I listen to people. He sniffs the wind. And we both sense something big coming. Something very big."
It returns eager to share the feast of blood and gore with its ghoulish master.
Genestealer Cults bide their time on Imperial worlds, spreading tendrils of corruption through the native population.


The astropath collapsed, his empty eye sockets aglow. He spoke three words before falling lifeless to the ground: "They . . . are . . . coming!"
The ohran viper is not cold-blooded. Its veins course with the same antigelid venom used to kill its prey.
Cabal initiates enter training full of hopes and fears. They graduate with neither.

You can't remember a time when you didn't feel the pull of forgotten stories and buried secrets.


"Humans use pigs to hunt for mushrooms, don't they? It's like that."
—Harak, Malakir bloodwitch



Surrakar grab things they *don't* want.

Those who fail to respect power will soon be consumed by it.
Twigs broken underfoot in Llanowar tend to return the favor.

The library's scrolls have long since crumbled into swirling desert sands.
That's what it's all about.
She shepherds mysteries and dust as others would a flock of sheep.
"Take their dead, and entomb them in the snow. Risen, they shall serve a new purpose."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer



"You know how to tell a sapling explorer from an old hardhead? See which one mistakes a swarm of jagwasps for the setting sun."
—Chadir the Navigator


"It is not a goal, but a process—the process of creating the perfect Phyrexia."

Countless xenos cults dwell unseen within the Imperium, lurking just beneath the surface.
Tritons borrow the camouflage of their oceanic prey to become predators on land.
Leaf and soul alike wither at its touch.
Most myr monitor other species. Some myr monitor other myr.

"Just wait, my Madara deck isn't all Emperor Bolas. There's an Umezawa subtheme!"
"I dance the nothing dance, / Feet in the air, knives in the ground."
—Femeref chant



There is no glory to be gained in the kingdom of the dead.
—Vec tomb inscription

"Better the dead depart utterly than be enslaved."
"It blinked, and flower petals fell like tears. Harthar, sensing weakness, attacked—and his blood fell like petals."
—Shesul Fass, faerie bard

"The Lowlands refuse to suffer at the whims of the High City."

Markov vampires cultivate an image of such decadent elegance that it can be easy to forget they can field a deadly fighting force.
"Would you give up your hands to fly? That is what the birds have done."
—*The One Thousand Questions*
Fighting for the right reason is itself a source of strength.
Each of his twenty-two braids is bound with bone and leather from a foe.
Eyes are unnecessary for seeing the future.


"What did you catch today, my pet? Ah, it looks like a bit of vampire stuck between your teeth."
—Atla Palani, nest tender

The Simic soon discovered that the sky offered as few constraints on size as the sea.
"I've faced your kind before. This time I'm ready for you."

Dreams, by definition, live shorter lives than those who dream them.
"The very lands of Balduvia are alive."
—Arna Kennerüd, skyknight
The municipal senate makes extensive use of the thopters, mostly to gather dirt on rival senators.
"Later we will mourn those we have lost. First we must end their suffering."
—Drana, Kalastria bloodchief

As the soldiers beneath her raised their voices, the angel spread her wings, their span seeming to cover the sky.
"I will keep watch."

"Magic is like the tide—both ebb, both flow, and both serve my whims."
—Empress Llawan
"I knew I'd find a use for all that newt spittle!"

"I appreciate the depravity of noble designs turned to devious ends."
—Tezzeret
"Holy places are no longer sanctuary from death, and death is no longer sanctuary from anything."
—Thalia, Knight-Cathar


Better a fierce thunderhead than a sky filled with locusts.

By the time Mishra was defeated, no mage was foolish enough to rely heavily on walls.
Rhox monks are dedicated to spiritual growth and learning, and most bear the sigils of many students. However, they do not gladly suffer fools or those who disagree with their carefully wrought dogma.

The nacatl called this new species "vetli," their word for poison arrows.




"I've been all over this world. I even remember some of those places."
"To fill your mind with knowledge, we must start by emptying it."
—Barrin, master wizard

"They may show up with the wrong thigh bone or mandible, but they always show up."
—Zul Ashur, lich lord


"The Zhentarim are ruthless, unscrupulous, and dishonest. But I must admit, they are effective."
—Commander Liara Portyr

"The dragon has no pretense of compassion, no false mask of civilization—just hunger, heat, and need."
—Sarkhan Vol
The wurms become so big, a single scale can be used as a roof for a human dwelling.


"Duty and law are the foundation on which civilization stands. They must not fall, for when they do, they take everything with them."
—Lord Konda
"I will never run out of new oceans to explore or new sea-dwellers to embrace as my own."
—Kiora



Many sigils, one purpose.


Sunastian has roots in both sorcery and swordplay; he has learned never to depend too heavily on the latter.
"Hallowed be this collection of miscellaneous items!"


"Nice army you had there."

Death inevitably seduces all who study it.
"I refuse to die before I see the sun rise again."

The third step in creating a skaab requires draining the body of blood and replacing it with *viscus vitae*, a mixture of angel's blood and lamp oil.

When the ground is saturated with mana, even the lightest footstep can bring it to the surface.




In life, the nantuko study nature by revering it. In death, they study nature by disemboweling it.
No two see the same Maro.

"Let your heels point you home."
—Ancient blessing

A mocking laughter echoed in Ugin's mind. How many centuries had he slumbered, stricken, while Nicol Bolas moved unchallenged among the planes?


While Kaya is guildmaster, Teysa waits patiently at the center of the Orzhov web of power.
Whoever wins, the neighborhood loses.


"Hang out our banners on the outward walls; / The cry is still, 'They come'; our castle's strength / Will laugh a siege to scorn."
—William Shakespeare, *Macbeth*
"Sages who take the time to verify their sources are rewarded for their diligence."
—Jhoira, to Teferi

"Listen, Duck. Gix is everywhere, playing every side. Mishra won't listen . . . but perhaps Urza will."
"Eron would be much less of a hassle if only he were mortal."
—Reyhan, Samite alchemist
The murdered inhabitants of Hollowhenge impart to the living the terror they felt in death.


Ambition has a price in Baldur's Gate, and it is paid to the Council.
Saltfield nomads call a sudden storm a "whitemane."

"You don't want to know what happens after I put on the goggles."


"Llanowar's boughs are ever ready
To unleash an autumn of steel leaves."
—"Song of Freyalise"
"I said we should destroy the Eldrazi. Ugin wanted to return them to stasis. Ugin's arguments were . . . unconvincing."
—Jace Beleren





"I've seen Ravnica's fate. Believe me, I'm doing you a favor."

"My mind is the spread of the canopy. My heart is the embrace of the roots. I am deathless Llanowar, its fury and its peace."

"Although fragile, the Aeolipile could be quite destructive."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. I*






"Over the silver mountains, Where spring the nectar fountains, There will I kiss The bowl of bliss; And drink my everlasting fill. . . ."
—Sir Walter Raleigh, "The Pilgrimage"


She trusts that the potent poisons of her darts will reach the enemy before the enemy reaches her.
From the highest tiers of Dawn's Light Palace to the deepest shade of Wren's Run, the silver notes of the horn shimmer through the air, and all who hear it feel its pull.


Ambidexterity is common among kithkin. The thoughtweft links the minds of the left- and right-handed, giving each the knack of the other.
So confusing is the Wall's appearance that few of its victims even see it move.
Sometimes the smallest nuisance can be the greatest pain.



"Birth and death are both reversible."
—Nicol Bolas


"We called them 'armored lightning.'"
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*
"She spoke of mystery and portent, of such unfathomable things that my mind screamed for pity."
—*The Seer's Parables*
Wars are won with strength, valor, and numbers—especially numbers.
Her cold wail echoes in the alleys and under-eaves, finding the unfortunate and turning their blood to ice.


From above, the brothers noticed strange glyphs etched into the desert sand.
The bonds of family cross the boundaries of race.
The Soul of the World has returned.


The goblins laughed as the elf ran away, until more came back.

Shintan sensed the malice in his opponent, but he did not strike until the orc's muscles tensed in preparation to throw the first punch.
"The Titans claimed to draw strength from the rocks, but I suspect them of some darker allegiance."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry
The cleansing winds swept away all traces of the demon, until not even his legend remained.


"Of course I know what 'eponymous' means! It's a little horse."
—Krizz, gate guard
Maybe a little *too* convincing.
"You guys go on ahead. I'll catch up with ya."
—Vark, goblin scout, last words








An audience of one with the malice of thousands.



He watches over the valley where Progenitus sleeps, culling signs from its steaming breaths.

New Capenna's statues hold Old Capenna's secrets.
It grows to hate you.




Intent: This card prevents you from casting multiple spells per turn but rewards you for your restraint.


"When I'm done training you, anything will be a deadly weapon."
Six feet of earth muffled his cries.
Boggarts constantly strive to outdo each other with the things they bring back to the warren, each hoping the exploit will become as well-known as those of Auntie Grub.

It's all fun and games until it drops a guest. Then it's a misdemeanor.

Everyone knew the Dimir had done the damage. Everyone suspected the Izzet had hired them.
"Infiltrate and infuriate!"
—Goblin Espionage League motto

The promise of anguish is payment enough for services rendered.
"It is the nature of evil to turn you against yourself."
—Starke




"They exist only so long as the living take no notice."
—Kifimbo, Shadow guildmage





"Scores will die in the name of peace. That is what you call compromise?"
—Gideon Jura, to Aurelia
"The awestruck birds gazed at Wonder. Slowly, timidly, they rose into the air."
—*Scroll of Beginnings*
On Evos Isle, the swift and formidable aven enforce the will of the ruling sphinxes.

Jace surmised that they were walking into Bolas's trap. He felt no joy in being right.
"What do they need all this stuff for? They're dead. We're alive. Simple enough."
Life runs wild amid the tanged branches.





Dinner and politics don't mix.
"From down here we can make the whole wall collapse!" "Uh, yeah, boss, but how do we get out?"
Each scorpion's venom is unique, thwarting sanctuary healers' attempts to develop an antidote.




Over such beauty, wars are fought. With such power, wars are won.
"Eldrazi? Ha! Try walking through Zulaport at night with your pockets full. Now *that's* dangerous."
One who wears magical *boots of striding and springing* can jump astounding distances.
Armored in courage and armed with searing light, her legion stands unflinching against the forces of darkness.

"You think you know everything there is to know about battle? You know Orc droppings! Underwater combat is three dimensional. Those thrice-damned Vodalians don't attack in ranks; they attack in schools."
—Ivra Jursdotter

"I can see why this appeals to Thassa."
—Kiora
"If your blood doesn't run hot, I will make it run in the sands!"
—Maraxus of Keld



"We have ways to make you talk, but you have nothing interesting to say."
"We could see the horizon blacken with the great beasts, but it was too late. The icefield offered no immediate safety, but luckily most of us reached a crevasse in which we could take cover."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry

"Linear growth? What am I, a first-year?"
"The maaka remain loyal to us in this time of strife. We don't even have to feed them—our enemies do."
—Nedja, Gruul shaman
It burns with the very fire that doomed Szarekh's species, and channels it to devastate his foes.
There is always a toll to pay for passage.


Every world is an organism, able to grow new lands. Some just do it faster than others.
It teaches *you* to play dead.

Armodons are trained to step on things. Enemy things.





"Halcyon, the floating capital of Thran. The once shining city in the clouds, now lies ruined on the desert floor."
—*Fall of the Thran*

"Death is no excuse for disobedience."
—Liliana Vess

Structures built from darksteel yield to neither assault nor age.


Bobbing merrily from opponent to opponent, the scimitar began adding playful little flourishes to its strokes; it even turned a couple of somersaults.

"His laugh, a bellowing, deathly din, slices through the heavens, making them bleed."
—*The Seer's Parables*


"I see all things as they truly are! I see . . . decay in all flesh, and betrayal in every heart."
"Its broad claw suggests a chitinous shield, but in fact it conceals glands that secrete a remarkably swift healing agent."
—Rukarumel, field journal
"Where a lesser mind sees junk, I see infinite potential."


The Yeti's single greatest asset is its unnerving ability to blend in with its surroundings.



"Until the world unites in vengeful fury and Phage is destroyed, I will not stay my hand."
—Akroma, angelic avenger
These spirits of the air are winsome and wild and cannot be truly contained. Only marginally intelligent, they often substitute whimsy for strategy, delighting in mischief and mayhem.


It was as though the sky opened its eyes and found what it saw displeasing.

Mimics don't hide their natural form well, but their disguises work well enough on boggarts.


"I've known true ferocity and power. Those brazen 'planar-walkers' have no idea what wild really means."
—Chadir the Navigator


Evil is never absent, only hidden.


The Izzet mage knew she would neither get her thermoinverter back nor have the satisfaction of exploding it herself.


"More fire?" Jaya asked.
"More fire," Jodah agreed.
"When they covered the world in city, all they did was give themselves nowhere to run."


Each day of their journey, Jandor opened the saddlebags and found them full of mutton, quinces, cheese, date rolls, wine, and all manner of delicious and satisfying foods.



With Olivia distracted, Sigarda tore free from her bindings and summoned her Host of Herons.
Remade by Eldrazi magic, Tuktuk inspired an entire clan of misguided goblins.
The nacatl called this new species "vetli," their word for poison arrows.

The destruction of Rhonas's monument released his collection upon the city.
History may be written by the triumphant, but it's often rewritten by the troublesome.

Forgotten under rocks and vines, Gruul symbols mark the sites of primitive rituals where shamans once chanted to the wild.



Gerrard: "But it doesn't *do* anything!"
Hanna: "No—it *does* nothing."
The army was never at a loss for weapons; Crovax was their forge.


Elvish weavers use spidersilk to make everything from tapestries to rappelling ropes.







The natural order is out of order.
"A river of lava is just another river to cross."

"I can see why this appeals to Thassa."
—Kiora
"I do not miss Jukai Forest. It is not my home. My home is Kamigawa, its people my family. Wherever I set my pack and rest my head, I am home."
"Orcs often greeted promotions to Icatian battle with anguished wails and pleas for mercy."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. VI*


Tobias spent decades tormenting pirates on the open sea and decades more dancing lifelessly beneath it.
"No single arrow can pierce an entire flock."
"Stoke a fire hot enough and you'll never run out of things to burn."
—Xenagos, the Reveler
Trows are the vile trolls that lurk in the bogs of Shadowmoor. They reappear each night to frighten the living and gnaw the dead.


"For the survival of our people, every conflict must now end in retreat."
—Pythor, Mirran resistance
"I've been insulted by drunks in a hundred inns, but never as skillfully or annoyingly as by those blasted brownies."
—General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox


Though many think of Wolves as solitary predators, they are actually extremely social animals. During a hunt they often call to each other, which can be quite unsettling for their prey.


Shadowmoor's main crops are rot, slime, and despair.
Verick held his breath. Breathing wouldn't reveal his position, but it would force him to smell the goblins.
The Cho-Arrim make no distinction between healers and soldiers.




"Finally! Something that can capture all my good angles."
—Captain Rex Nebula


"The seas are vast, but the skies are even more so. Why be content with one kingdom when I can rule them both?"
The prince consort was happy to let Yotia's coffers fund his extravagant research.

"The world is a puzzle, and the mind is its key."



"Sure, you know the law. But I know the streets."

Fools believe that Kolaghan's brood follows lightning storms. The wise know that it is the other way around.

"Immortality is not quite the same as invulnerability, but it is close enough."
"Where has little Gossamer gone?"
—Thaniel, Gatstaf shepherd

As their supplies of etherium dwindled, mechanists sent gargoyles farther and farther afield in search of salvage.
Plan for victory, or prepare for defeat.
"To pass through the jungle: silence, courtesy, ferocity, as the occasion demands."
—Kamau, "Proper Passage"
The harvest god's cornucopia contains the fruits of the fields, the forest, and beyond.
"The cost of your opposition will be extracted from your wits."
—Nekusar, the Mindrazer
"Opportunity isn't something you wait for. It's something you create."

Nothing stops industry in Ravnica—certainly not the safety of its workers.


"Is it better to be a fool or a coward? Fools may get things done occasionally, but cowards live longer."
—Ghelesh Shadowmane, rakshasa mage
With one lethal strike, Extus took control of the Oriq and took his first step towards vengeance.


"Once I supply the breeze, you'll see your warriors for the smoke they truly are."
—Alexi, zephyr mage


"Under the suns, Mirrodin kneels and begs us for perfection."
—Geth, Lord of the Vault
Where wasted life cries out to be reborn.
The boiling seas around Shiv provided a welcome layer of protection for the reclaimed Mana Rig.
"The light of my master's guidance traverses all boundaries, even those separating life and death."
"We've endured your slights to Gaea with the grace of tolerance. Now behold the grace of our ferocity."


Timing is everything.
The denizens of the Luxa River woke angry on the currents of blood.
"The Elementalists' talents could be useful if turned to other purposes."
—Zur the Enchanter
Its wings beat to the howls of war and fan the fires of rage.
For a ghoul, every village is a buffet and every disaster is a reunion.

"Goblins bred underground, their numbers hidden from the enemy until it was too late."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV*
It converts the faintest surges of power from Mirrodin's core into usable energy, providing endless power for Memnarch's creations on the surface.

Polished by a thousand waves.
"Nature is not always gentle or kind, but all life begets life."
—Marwyn of Llanowar
Any pirate would prefer Rishada's swift and cruel justice to Saprazzo's patient punishments.
"You should have seen the look on *both* their faces."
—Morkamp, Lambholt innkeeper

Demons massacre. Devils annoy.
"A few drops of this, and the trickiest problems simply melt away."
—Thamaz, Weldfast inventor



Once guarded by the Knights of the Reliquary, the tower stands now protected only by its own remoteness, its dusty treasures open to plunder by anyone.


Structures built from darksteel yield to neither assault nor age.
Dragons scorn the weak, even among their own kind.



"Geralf, must you always whine? I agreed to nothing. I'll raise ghouls anytime I wish."
Kuldotha, wellspring of molten metal, temple of the goblin horde.



"What else, when chaos draws all forces inward to shape a single leaf."
—Conrad Aiken
Confront it at your own peril, for it will confront you for its own amusement.
Snokk ran as fast as he could, but the sound of hooves grew ever louder in his ears.
It wasn't really expected to fly. Then again, it wasn't expected to move, either.


Left to itself, nature overflows any container, overthrows any restriction, and overreaches any boundary.

Amid this whirling hurricane of blades, there is no calm eye in which the hapless can find shelter.


"This is a war without neutrality."
—Asmira, Holy Avenger


When Lord Rakdos stirred from his slumber, everyone else's nightmare began.
There is an immense diversity of life in the Underdark, almost all of which can kill you.
Do not be so caught up in keeping track of time that you forget to make use of it.






Those who understand the forest are free to harvest its bounty.


Some passengers ride without tickets.
"I fear no army or beast, but only the morning fog. Our assault can survive everything else."
—Lord Hilneth

"I found a new toy. Wanna play?"
Though their forms embody Lolth's image, driders are those unfortunate drow who have failed the Spider Queen.

"From your veins to mine."
Archaeologists depend on automatons inspired by their previous discoveries at Koilos to guard the excavations.

Rhox monks are dedicated to spiritual growth and learning, and most bear the sigils of many students. However, they do not gladly suffer fools or those who disagree with their carefully wrought dogma.
Opening like the maw of a hellion, the earth swallowed the traveler whole.


"Our pyromancer's flames may not have killed them, but they bought us the time we needed."
—*The War Diaries*




"The hand of Keranos can be seen in every rumbling storm cloud. Best not to stand where he points."
—Rakleia of Shrine Peak

Inventors from around the world have come to the Fair hoping their creations will fly, drive, or sail their way to a top prize.
It holds motionless vigil, watching Naya in silence through the screen of the whitecover. When it senses anything amiss, it launches forward with the uncanny sound of torn fog.
"It's free to do whatever it wants. I've merely told it what that is."
—Xorin, Architect of Will

"Looks like I need a new test subject. Any volunteers?"




"Here lies Gond, hero of Safehold Taldwen. May he ever guide our quest."

On the continent of Tazeem, rushing waters plunge through narrow canyons into mist-cloaked lakes.

Their pain is so great, they can't help but share it with others.


The same spears that catch their food today will defend their homes tomorrow.
Some say magic was first practiced by women, who have always felt strong ties to the land.
The burglar turned, bowed, and dropped from the ledge onto her waiting mount.
"Can't see this airship crashing in the near future. Sturdy as a rock."
Having flesh is increasingly a liability on Mirrodin.
"I don't have time for you right now."
—Teferi



An emblem of a secret guild, the Dimir insignia is seen only by its own members—and the doomed.


Before a cause can have supporters, it has to have a voice.

The ceremonial "incense" was a concoction of Edgar's own design, a precise blend of blood from his favorite human lineages.
One bone broken for every twig snapped underfoot.
—Llanowar penalty for trespassing


Life needs no encouragement.







Though only looking out for himself, Toshiro ended up saving all of Kamigawa.
Before tyrants or torturers, there was evil.
Snaking remnants of nature directed by a body of thought and progress, the oracles embody all that is Simic.



Cloudy with a chance of chaos.
"Light can lay bare our fears. It can also make them go away."
—Nazra of the Stone Havens
Architects find inspiration in the dragon's beauty of form, while artificers are influenced by the function of its fire.
With the new guildmaster's innovations, arresters can arrive on the scene moments before a crime is committed.
Commanders order soldiers to attack. Field surgeons order them to heal. Both are obeyed without question.


The scouts of Hyrax Tower keep watch at the edge of Setessan territory, protecting the polis from inhuman monsters and enemy armies.
"The man whom I call father killed the orc who sired me, offering his world and his blade in return."
"We agree that order benefits everyone, but not until you enforce it."
"It is the nature of souls that they burn more brightly together than apart."
—Vessifrus, flamekin demagogue
Age wears the flesh but galvanizes the soul.
What the current doesn't take, they do.


"Mat'Selesnya sings out, and life flourishes in answer."


These nimble ships were designed for hit-and-run tactics.
"Yes, she can be a nuisance. But at least my tea never gets cold."
—Marlan Farthwald, innkeeper
"You have to appreciate the genius of it. Why bother building defenses when you can just fill the pass with angry ogres?"
—Javad Nasrin, Ondu relic hunter

Each flower identical, every leaf and petal disturbingly exact.



Insult, like an arrow, is beyond control once loosed.


Countless knights of Garenbrig owe their lives to his peerless craftsmanship.
It must eat its weight in metal daily, or its furnacelike belly will consume itself for lack of fuel.
Feldon found the first of these canes frozen in the Ronom Glacier.


Most denizens of the Imperial hive city live and die without ever setting foot inside the towering skyscrapers of the ruling class.


It soars through currents of moonbeams to give hope to the forsaken.
As the continent sank over the course of eons, the tomb complex slowly flooded. The sleeping Necrons, their stasis crypts corrupted, never awoke.
"Fear this no more!"
Which is worse—the sleep which never ends or that which never comes?
As the Eldrazi spread, no secret that could give Zendikar's defenders an advantage was considered too dangerous to seek.

The insects found a meal in the carrion of the beast's prey. The beast found a spiffy new hairstyle.




"You returned a warrior. . . . Your hair was cut, your eye tattooed with the red triangle of war."
—"Love Song of Night and Day"

Raptors are clever enough to tear away a hard metal shell to get at the tasty morsel inside.

"Drink deeply, for there is no tomorrow!"
—Anje Falkenrath
"They infiltrated deep into the enemy camp under cover of darkness . . . and dirt."
—Corus, viashino warrior

"One beginning, many paths."
—Vannifar
Lat-Nam wizards trade knowledge on scrolls made of magic so they can better guard against thieves and spies.
She always leads the charge.
"As long as your courage remains, your life will not falter."
—Sephara, Sky's Blade

Centuries of association with the Sun Empire have taught the dinosaurs that shiny things are important.
The Curse of Wandering leaves only hatred.



He wants to watch Ravnica burn, one soul at a time.
Ding, ding, ding!
After seeing his life's work drip away, the mage decided it was a good time to go crazy.
"The good news is, we figured out how the wand works. The bad news is, we figured out how the wand works."
"When traveling the Great Desert avoid wearing the scales of lizards, for the Viashino rule the sands and look poorly on the skinning of their cousins."
—*Zhalfirin Guide to the Desert*
Not once in the history of Grixis has anyone died of old age.
"Defense is as much a part of war as offense, the shield as important a tool as the sword."
—Alovnek, Boros guildmage
Once these horrifying creatures were perfected, there was no need for armodons.
Even after Hanweir was saved, Gisa's lost ghouls would shamble through, still following the twisted orders of their imprisoned master.
Purphoros's blessing: sometimes a boon, sometimes a bane. Always ablaze.
"I prefer loyalty to be a matter of respect, not of magic. But one does what one must."
—Kaalia of the Vast
Resistance is unthinkable.
Rakdos rioters paint their faces to resemble the drakes' bloodied muzzles.


"You are hopelessly obsolete, my brothers. Come and join the Great Work."
—Rhmir, Hand of the Augur

The sky is the dragon's throne, the seat from which it issues its fiery decrees.




Most human scholars believe that Merfolk are the survivors of sunken Atlantis, humans adapted to the water. Merfolk, however, believe that humans sprang forth from Merfolk who adapted themselves in order to explore their last frontier.
"Touch no tree, break no branch, and speak only the question you wish answered."
—Von Yomm, elder druid, to her initiates
"Battles no longer served a purpose in Karakas."
—Angus Mackenzie, Diary

"Healing is a matter of time, but it is sometimes also a matter of opportunity."
—D'Avenant proverb
Ragemutts pull the chariots of the Butcher Clowns, a trio of wingless, zombified faeries formerly of the Izzet.
"When the sky screams, when the ground groans, the End-Raze will soon begin."
—Nikya of the Old Ways
Saw her coming. Didn't matter.

Beauty is in the eye of the exploder.
"What do you have that I cannot obtain?"
—Mairsil, the Pretender

"Sometimes I snare the unexpected, but I know its purpose will be revealed in time."
The emotional echoes of dryad gatherings attract lost souls.
"I don't have anything against Snapdax. I'm just more of a dog person."
The tiniest cough can be deadlier than the fiercest dragon.
"After these words the magician drew a ring off his finger, and put it on one of Aladdin's, saying: 'It is a talisman against all evil, so long as you obey me.'" —*The Arabian Nights*, Junior Classics trans.


"Once, our people could call down the storm itself to do our bidding."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain





Born with wings of light and a sword of faith, this heavenly incarnation embodies both fury and purity.

"While the rest of us got paid to serve the Benalish army, the militia didn't. I used to say they stood for freedom—free *and* dumb."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*
"Our archers made sport of it as it fumbled its way up the slag ridge. As it collapsed we thought ourselves safe, but the foul thing carried more than necrogen."
—Adaran, Tangle hunter
Its last life is spent tormenting your dreams.
Life among the sudden tremors and violent eruptions of Akoum demands a healthy fear of both.

"The harder they try to extinguish my faith, the brighter it burns in the darkness."

A true reflection of nature: death fostering life.
"As my father taught, 'Training will raise your shield to the blow, but courage fills the gaps the shield leaves open.'"
Rograkh couldn't bear to watch his father pillage his own people. Not when there were so many other people they could pillage instead.
"Words lie. People lie. The land tells the truth."

"Fear holds no place in faith's battle plan."



"A crafter must imbue her weapon with part of her soul—something the Phyrexians are incapable of doing."
—Melira

"No, no, it's just a murder of crows, not an omen of murder . . . I think."
—York, Kessig tracker
"I believe many worlds will bow to Phyrexia. Mirrodin is merely the first."
—Sheoldred, Whispering One

In Lorwyn's brief evenings, the sun pauses at the horizon long enough for a certain species of violet to bloom with the fragrance of mischief.
"The good don't sit and wait for the evil to act. They prepare to defend. They prepare to punish."
Knives in the sky, cries in the air, and blood on the ground.
The fondest memories burn brightest. As they're lost forever, the flames grow hotter still.
"Lord Windgrace, grant me wisdom."
A blazing sun that never sets.


"I told him it was just a flesh wound, a wee scratch, but the next time I looked at him, poor Tadhg was dead and gone." —Maeveen O'Donagh, *Memoirs of a Soldier*

"Forgive me, Saburo. I could not save you. But your blade will not rest in my hand."
The first morning after acquiring her familiar, the wizard awoke with fleabites and mange.




Infantry deployment is the art of putting your troops in the wrong place at the right time.
Honorable in battle, generous in death.
—Motto of the Kjeldoran Royal Guard
The Temur welcome bears into the clan, fighting alongside them in battle. The relationship dates back to when they labored side by side under Sultai rule.
"By this glyph I affirm your role."
—Urza, to Karn

"From the sea came all life, and to the sea it will return. The sooner the better."
—Emperor Aboshan

"As the climate cooled, many elves turned to thallid farming for food, while the hunters honed their skills on what little game remained."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. III*


It stares through the empty, pain-twisted faces of those it has drained.

Freed from their respective labs, the two weirds formed a partnership, feeding on the arcane energies of war.


The Boros built a prison in the sky where Azorius statutes couldn't restrict their sense of justice.
"Oh, don't worry about that one. I'm saving him for later."
—Liliana Vess


"Conquering your first world is the hardest, after all. My power grew as I moved from world to world, taking anything that would make the next taking easier."
—Ob Nixilis

Masako was privy to a great many of Konda's deepest secrets, and her hair was always perfect.
The mizzium-sphere array drove her mind deep into the thought field, where only the rarest motes of genius may be plucked.
"I see you, shiny soldiers, but you won't see me."
"The centaurs are truly free. Never will they be tamed by temptation or controlled by fear. They live in total harmony, a feat not yet achieved by our kind."
—Ramal, sage of Westgate
Fortune favors the fortunate.
Countless ghouls surged through Thraben's streets, and with them came the city's salvation.

When asked how many paths reach enlightenment, the monk kicked a heap of sand. "Count," he smiled, "and then find more grains."
"The Boros fight for justice. The Azorius fight for law. I hold the line between, and make sure the people are given both."


"The second mage learned to dissipate blasts of lightning. Threat and response: thus did the study of magic progress."
—Naban, dean of iteration
The ground erupted in time with the hedron's thrum, a dirge of the last days.
As whispers and rumors increased, so did the demand for fail-safe barriers.

Alara's burning blood cannot be contained by mere earth and stone.
The source of the Cabaretti's Halo turned out to be a single teenage girl.
The trainers were a gift of gratitude from the wizards of Tolaria West to the knights of New Benalia for their aid during the Talas Incursion.




Just as the evil ones approached to slay Justina, she cast a great spell, imbuing her weapons with her own life force. Thus she fulfilled the prophecy: "In the death of your savior will you find salvation."
"Welcome to the family. Chef Rocco sends their congratulations."
"It's either terrified or extremely mad at us, definitely one of the two."
—Jonald, mission naturalist
An empty canvas holds infinite possibilities.


Progress comes at a price.
As they awakened, the Eldrazi reasserted their mastery over all of Zendikar's natural forces.
It slithers through the senses, constricting consciousness and poisoning perceptions.

Shadowmoor's main crops are rot, slime, and despair.
"I can hear the plunder calling. It asks for me by name."
Subtlety is not a necessary part of sabotage.


The Iroan Games award no medals. Athletes vie for a visit from Iroas, god of victory.
Innistrad's best archers are trained by the Quiver of Kessig, an order of cathars who specialize in ranged combat.
"We sculpt the land into what we need—homes, armament, fortresses of war. Our strength comes not only from knowing, but from *commanding* the terrain."
—Raksha Golden Cub, leonin kha
"Who'd want to ignite things one at a time?"
—Chandra Nalaar
"Preachers of freedom forget that conformity can be beautiful."
"Renata was mesmerized by the satyr's dance of gleeful indifference, of reckless grace and bright disaster."
—Luphea of Setessa, *Histories*
There is beauty in the uncertainty of potential.

"I appreciate you not letting me fall to my death in the acid bogs. Now, can you let me down?"
The bedrock has many gifts to give.


"This must be the lost city of Zantafar, where my people lived before becoming nomads. Think of the history we'll learn here!"
—Quintorius, Lorehold mage-student
"Evil is relative. Do sheep think any better of the shepherd?"
—Baron Sengir



Before being presented to its lord, each shaku is blessed by every hero of every region within that lord's domain.
"Our pyromancer's flames may not have killed them, but they bought us the time we needed."
—*The War Diaries*
"Close the walls! Retract the docks! The homarids are coming!"
—Benson, Argivian sentry
"Rage courses in every heart, yearning to betray its rational prison."
—Sarkhan Vol
Flurk's crude goblin language didn't differentiate between "I *bring* the flame" and "I *am* the flame."



"Join me, and take the world for yourself!"




"By using the vortex, I can study for at least fifteen extra minutes between every class. I wasn't being reckless, Dean Imbraham. I was being efficient."
"Why do bad things always come in threes?"
—Gisulf, expedition survivor

"Never taunt an embermage, 'What are you going to do about it?'"
—Akin, seasoned askari



Atarka's presence thaws the glaciers of Qal Sisma, forcing its elementals to migrate or adapt.
"Friend and foe alike are irresistibly drawn to its beauty—the good, to their lasting reward, and the evil, to their brief and painful regret."
—Vivien Reid
The sun breaks, the beasts stir, and the forest awakens to stand against its enemies.



Decepticon warfare: the art of total annihilation.



"The hour of Dusk is come."
Burl, scurf, and bower
Birth fern and flower.
"The soil here is rich with the rotting dead, and the sun's fingers barely penetrate the dark canopy. Plant our brethren here. This shall be our sanctuary."
—Savra
"A hedron holds magic for a thousand years—or less, if need be."

When the moon rises and the bloodlust takes hold, nothing matters but the kill.










In nature, not a single bone or scrap of flesh goes to waste.
It doesn't need a bite. The bark works just fine.
Maralen sent Veesa, Endry, and Iliona—the Vendilion clique—on the gravest of tasks.
Only the Eldrazi mind thinks in the warped paths required to open the hedrons and tap the power within.
Which burns more fiercely? Your ambition, or the flame?
"Holy places are no longer sanctuary from death, and death is no longer sanctuary from anything."
—Thalia, Knight-Cathar
Deep in nature's core lies a potential unsullied by greed or civilization.



All the angel saw was her doom.

"My one regret is that I have mastered an art that leaves its audience unable to applaud."

After a hundred failed patent applications, Cornelian was stunned to find that no one had ever created a steam-powered autonomous ice cream delivery system. He immediately designed a gnome with scoops for hands.


The mind is a beautiful bounty encased in an annoying bone container.

The demon had flown past the reach of Erebos's whip but not the point of the sun god's spear.
The Ogre philosopher Gnerdel believed the purpose of life was to live as high on the food chain as possible. She refused to eat vegetarians, and preferred to live entirely on creatures that preyed on sentient beings.
"My faith is stronger than fang, claw, or mindless hunger."



Enthusiasm is no match for preparation.
"Better the dead depart utterly than be enslaved."











The Champion stood alone between the horde of the Returned and the shrine to Karametra, cutting down scores among hundreds. She would have been overcome if not for the aid of the temple guardians whom Karametra awakened.
—*The Theriad*

Infinitely powerless.

Thinking is hard.

"He is judge, jury, and executioner because he killed them all."
—Bishop Cawle of Elgaud


The larger the crowd, the harder it is for them to run away.
"Forswear the flesh and you will truly see."
—Jin-Gitaxias, Core Augur



"Thanks! You shouldn't have."




As elusive as the footprint of a djinn
—Suq'Ata expression
"Patience, mage. Killing you now would be too easy."




"Knowledge of Bant's landscape and ruins is a weapon that the invaders can't comprehend."
—Elspeth
"We see the same sky as you, just through a different lens."



The essence of Ixalan was never far from Huatli's heart.
All of us, from the tiny leaf-mite to the towering baloth, are vital threads in the weave of life."

Once you have ascended to the highest temple of Orazca, the power of the Immortal Sun is yours to wield forever.
It doesn't think. It doesn't feel.
It doesn't laugh or cry.
All it does from dusk till dawn
Is make the soldiers die.
—Onean children's rhyme


"There is one hour of the night even we do not watch."
—Sedva, captain of the watch
"I wouldn't stand in front of that wurm, son. 'Course, I wouldn't stand behind it neither. In fact, standing anywhere near that wurm's not much of a plan. Running, now *that's* a plan!"
—Wandering mage
As Narset struggled to meditate, tiny dragonlings spiraled around her, conjuring thoughts of ancient clans.
Rumors quickly spread among thieves about a labyrinth without walls and a prize beyond all measures of worth.
"Even this primitive specimen of my kind is impressive."
—Niv-Mizzet
"If there can be no victory, then I will fight forever."
—Koth of the Hammer


Tel-Jilad, sanctum of the ancient trolls, keepers of the secret of Mirrodin's origin.

"Nicely done, Jace. You always were good at disappearing acts."
—Liliana Vess

"Give them great meals of beef and iron and steel, they will eat like wolves and fight like devils." —William Shakespeare, *King Henry V*
Many chemisters are oblivious to the innumerable machinations of their guild, instead focusing obsessively on creating the perfect weird.


"Does it matter what it is? Take it and be grateful!"


A friendly ursapine means a constant supply of sharp spears. An unfriendly one means a constant supply of small holes.

"Every choice alters the path of fate."
—Sarkhan Vol
The Phyrexians were as surprised as anyone to discover they still needed to breathe.
So-called "old wood" is rare in deforested Ravnica. Statues carved from it are said to house the last of the ancient nature spirits.

Her prophecies amaze her even as she speaks them.





"And the seraphs sob at vermin fangs In human gore imbued."
—Edgar Allan Poe, "The Conqueror Wurm"
No forest is so remote that the elves don't know its secrets.

Who consistently managed to win.
It is a reminder that spring will always follow winter.

Nature twists knots stronger than any rope.
All Auriok children know the tale, "Bolgri and the Long Day of Squashing."

The arrows fell like fiery rain, and for a moment, the sky itself seemed to burn.
"Wisdom from the past is best gathered directly from the source."

Her webs, spun from her own hair, reach from Nyx to the mortal world and even into the Underworld.
He wished for knowledge, but not for the will to apply it.
For extra style points, spin them.
If yo . . . ted.
"Hold your position! Leave doubt for the dying!"
—Tahngarth of the Weatherlight
"This is the source, the line unbroken since the calamity that brought such monsters to our shores."
—Hastric, Thunian scout

To keep the dead so others may live.
—Shadow Guild maxim

The consciousness of Mat'Selesnya does not always spread in peaceful ways.





As easy to stop as it is to comprehend.
In Lorwyn's brief evenings, the sun pauses at the horizon long enough for a certain species of violet to bloom with the fragrance of mischief.
She feels no need to disturb her victim's slumber.
Few dare to brave the Dakra Isles. Those who return are forever changed.
"A good guard is alert. A great guard is also loyal."
—Benalish kennelmaster
"No matter who their fickle hearts worship, all mortals belong to one god in the end."
—Iadorna, death priest of Erebos
Those who regard the Gruul as savage simpletons underestimate the subtle power of their shamans.
To seek the truth was her calling. To gain its power was her destiny.


"They're so much more willing to parley once they're hanging from a boom by the ankle!"
Upon impact with a planet's surface, a tyranocyte's bloated belly bursts open, disgorging a horde of Tyranid invaders.
First the automatons reinforced depleted squads. Then they replaced them entirely.
Fire is never a gentle master.
Rumors float through the city like crows, alighting on citizens seemingly at random.
"Cloak me in mystery, hide my names from my enemies, and let me draw from the well of power."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest

"Look how cute it is now!"
—Vivien Reid

Bits of the missing agent were discovered in various alleys across all three boroughs.
A heart of light and a soul of darkness cannot coexist.


Suddenly, all the haggling didn't seem so important.
"By this oath, I pledge to stand by thee, against traitor, beast, or fiend, for only in death does duty end."

"…There was no trace Of aught on that illumined face…."
—Samuel Coleridge, "Phantom"

Hobs bury their kin far from home. They believe the dry, open ground keeps hags from stealing the bones and gwyllions from stealing the spirits.
Take two steps north into the unsettled future, south into the unquiet past, east into the present day, or west into the great unknown.
"It's like blowing up an arcane library in a thermobaric explosion. But in a good way."
—Bori Andon, Izzet blastseeker
"Unknown spears / Suddenly hurtle before my dream-awakened eyes . . . ."
—William Butler Yeats, "The Valley of the Black Pig"
"The only chance we have of getting out of this world is if we take care of Venger once and for all!"
"Lightning in a bottle? That's not where I need it."

"Now your staff is as twisted as your soul."
"Rats, rats, rats! Hundreds, thousands, millions of them, and every one a life."
—Bram Stoker, *Dracula*
The Legion of Dusk sailed from Torrezon in search of glory, riches, and the Immortal Sun.

"Precision is frequently more valuable than force."
Such loyalty can only be made.
The dogs of war are nothing compared to the cats.
"Since the last sliver arrived, even our mightiest relics splinter into shards as soon as we bring them against the hive."
—Llanach, Skyshroud ranger
"Too little, too late. The machine is in motion."
—Tezzeret
A golden helix streaked skyward from the Helvault. A thunderous explosion shattered the silver monolith and Avacyn emerged, free from her prison at last.

Any wall can be battered down, but at what cost?

"We thought the clouds had moved from the night sky. Then the night sky moved, and the horizon grew wings."
—Josuri



On Evos Isle, the swift and formidable aven enforce the will of the ruling sphinxes.



"A dash of cool water does wonders to clear a cluttered battlefield."
—Vibekke Ragnild, *Witches and War*


"The hum of the universe is never off-key."
—Mystic elder


"They never found the body of young Josu, or that of his murderous sister."
—"The Fall of the House of Vess"

Once favored companions, many cats were left to fend for themselves.






Halvar united the spirits of all the clans into a single, devastating force.
Her paean is the clash of spears, her prayer a battle cry.
Slain warriors were buried with a tree sapling, so they would become a part of the forest after death.

"And a horror of outer darkness after,/ And dust returneth to dust again."
—Adam Lindsay Gordon, The Swimmer
"If you must go out at night, bring a mob."
—Master of the Elgaud Cathars


"We're now to dispense aid to any Mirran we see battling anything . . . 'strange.' Regent's orders."
—Ranya, skyhunter captain
She is adept at navigating the stadium's ever-changing landscape.

In the darkest hours, some denied Avacyn. Now the Kessig wilds are their only haven.

"My scars are my sigils. I will wear them with pride long after you're gone."

"I love what they've done with the place."
—Liliana Vess
It has eight lives' worth of hunger to satisfy.




"Whoever Tezzeret is working with is after more than the Emperor."
—Tamiyo

Hours after the Helvault opened, his powers returned twice as strong as before.
"The foot stone is connected to the ankle stone, the ankle stone is connected to the leg stone..."
—Song of the Artificer
When things get ugly above ground, goblins resort to alternate routes of passage.
"Her will shall banish the shadows. Her might shall punish the lawless. Her beauty shall restore the light."
—Ushanti, leonin seer






Goblin generals don't distinguish between troops and ammunition.
"I wish I could train a pack of them for hunting in the undercity. But I'd never dare turn my back, and I hate to think what I'd have to feed them."
—Zhosmir, urban huntmaster
The aven are admired, for they are able to fly with the dragons.
The spirit dragon Ugin arranged the hedrons of Zendikar to direct leylines of energy. To disrupt one is to unleash devastation and chaos.

"To be a knight, Gideon, is to be the shield for the meek against the cruel."
Many an inventor has collapsed under the pressure to create a flawless design.

"The world is already run by all manner of machines. One day, they'll remind us of that fact."
—Sargis Haz, artificer
Though it affords excellent protection, few don this armor. The process is uncomfortable and not easily reversed.
Some who scouted new lands chose to stay.
"I can't protect everyone here. But those I can, I will."
—Karn

As long as the dryads are a part of the forest, the forest is a part of the army.
"We offer power to anyone willing to take it. Sadly, few are unburdened enough by their prejudices to accept."
—Cabal surgeon

"Does it matter what it is? Take it and be grateful!"

"Tonight, madam, it's your money *and* your life."
"Where metal is tainted and wood is scarce, we are best armed by faith."
—Tavalus, acolyte of Korlis
It's easier to just aim at everything.

Elspeth wanted answers. Xander needed a spy. Their paths were destined to cross.
On occasion, felidars leave meaty "gifts" outside the tents of explorers they consider worthy.


"I've come to reclaim what is mine. And you, Greven, are mine."
—Volrath


Eldrazi grow wherever something else dies.


Natural disasters in Ravnica are largely nullified by the Izzet. Unnatural disasters, on the other hand, happen all the time.
When the winds blow out of the abyss, death is the only harvest.
First, whispers of ancient days. Then, visions of things to come.
"This will work," Gerrard called to the elves as he used the forge to strengthen the aboroth, "but if it doesn't, we won't survive to care."
Vulshok shamans summon spark elementals to burn paths through thick underbrush—or through goblin salvage squads.

"The spirit of the flame is the spirit of change."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain


Mogis can fan a small flame of resentment into an inferno of madness.
Rakdos rioters paint their faces to resemble the drakes' bloodied muzzles.

No slinking in the dark for them, no luring whispers. They claim their prey in the speed and glory of the hunt.

"In its natural habitat, the goblin is stupid, yet devious. Now it's stupid, devious, and powerful."

"One sigil awarded for valor, the other awarded for surviving Hellkite's Pass."




Were she not a judge, she'd win the division herself.
The continent of Ondu is a vast plateau crisscrossed by deep trenches and meandering rivers.

"The left blade for a swift, painless death. The right blade for a long, lingering one. The choice is mine."


"Let me redeem my brothers both from death."
—William Shakespeare, *Titus Andronicus*
"Quit pontificating, mage. The last thing we want to do is give it more hot air."
—Tala Vertan, Makindi shieldmate



"And then I realized we all have skeletons on the inside. Why wait until the bodies are dead to control them?"
—Jadar, ghoulcaller of Nephalia
"This path is closed to you!"
"Any good prospector must sift the gold from the sand."
After years of training, the Druid becomes one with nature, drawing power from the land and returning it when needed.


These slivers, trapped between worlds since the Rathi overlay, are among the last to claim direct lineage from the lost Sliver Queen.


She monitors the roads in every province, mapping safe routes through hunting grounds and haunting grounds alike.



There are more sights on Zendikar than the eyes can see.

"Now *there's* something you don't see every day."
—Jaya Ballard, Task Mage

The sigil holds different meanings depending on its form and presentation. While some wear it as a sign of status, others wear it as a sign of debt.
This timeworn relic was responsible for many of Urza's victories, though he never fully comprehended its mystical runes.
The essence of nature is change.

"The elders say Zendikar has no safe, peaceful places. How would they know? They've never looked."

When it passes, the dead are displaced by flourishing life.
Heavier than it looks, tricky to wield, guaranteed to last.


"These alleys are not safe. Come, I can guide you back to the market square."
Death comes in many forms on Guul Draz, most of them slow, subtle, and agonizing. At least a monstrous crocodile offers a swift death.
"Let no child be without a sword. We will all fight, for if we fail, we will certainly all die."
—Oracle *en*-Vec
"Finally, I understand. Home isn't where you rest. It's what you fight for."
—Elspeth Tirel
"Volrath is not the only one who can shape this world to serve him."
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves


The last thing anyone would describe you as is shy. You love the spotlight, and it loves you back.
It beckons silently, waiting in the darkness.
Freed from the need to pay tribute to the dragon, the villages gladly paid the dragon-slayers instead.
The safety of the village depends on the beast thinking with its stomach.




Warning to those who scale the cliffs without paying tribute: it's a long way down.
Speed and fire are always a deadly combination.



"The sharks envy our ferocity. The eels envy our cunning."





While it's true most dragons are cruel, the Shivan dragon seems to take particular glee in the misery of others, often tormenting its victims much like a cat plays with a mouse before delivering the final blow.

Pilots take crippled skyships to the Aviaries, trusting Ghirapur's most talented mechanics to get them back into the air.



Life is eternal. A lifetime is ephemeral.
"Troops, kitten formation! This mouse won't catch itself!"
—Whiskers

"I'm always happy to lend a hand!"

Coming back from the dead, like most things, gets easier with practice.


"Phyrexia's touch is painful to all but the blackest of hearts."
—Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen

"I do not miss Jukai Forest. It is not my home. My home is Kamigawa, its people my family. Wherever I set my pack and rest my head, I am home."
Programmed to play more than seventy instruments and only one song.





Another day, another item Pietra has to add to the "do not juggle" database.
"I am most myself when I am least human."







In Lorwyn's brief evenings, the sun pauses at the horizon long enough for a certain species of violet to bloom with the fragrance of mischief.


First, whispers of ancient days. Then, visions of things to come.
"Trial 991: Still encountering issues with accidental aetherization. Maybe if we widen the dimensional matrix to 0.7?"
—Izzet research notes
No one has properly answered her favorite riddle: "Why should I spare your life?"
"Skyknight gear? Well, I have drake-skin gauntlets, supple and fireproof. Or a ceratok chestplate that'll stop a crossbow bolt."
When he's holding the hammers, everything looks like a nail.
"All dead move to the hollow rhythm of necromancy."
—Savra


"May angels fly at your back. May your blade cleave the darkness."
—War blessing of Serra

Quick enough to avoid jhovalls when alone and fierce enough to attack them in packs, the hounds were as at home in the mountains as the Mercadians were atop theirs.

"The Consulate promised that we would all have access to aether. I'm just keeping them honest."
Every inch of a sliver's body is a potential claw, appendage, or projectile.



The great birds dive through the sky, wings skimming the aether streams, to fall upon their unsuspecting prey.

They say the forest has eyes. They never mention its claws.







Face of innocence. Hand of death. Designed by Edmund McMillen
"This pendant was my grandmother's legacy. I sought solitude among the trees as moonlight danced on their branches, her gift safe in my hand."

Underneath the Dregscape lay the remains of creatures long extinct from Grixis.

"Most compete for insects at street level. Some dwell near Izzet laboratories and ride the thermal updrafts."
—Yolov, Simic bioengineer


"We thought the clouds had moved from the night sky. Then the night sky moved, and the horizon grew wings."
—Josuri
"The will of all, by my hand done."


"They groaned, they stirred, they all uprose,/ Nor spake, nor moved their eyes;/ It had been strange, even in a dream,/ To have seen those dead men rise."/ —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
The mating habits of Treefolk, particularly the stalwart Ironroot Treefolk, are truly absurd. Molasses comes to mind. It's amazing the species can survive at all given such protracted periods of mate selection, conjugation, and gestation.
"Never let them take their eyes off you."
—Sidar Jabari
He'll cleave wood and bone alike to carve a path for his allies.
The sight of a flock overhead is bittersweet. It means many are wounded, but it also means help is on the way.
"All will be reforged in the fires of glory."
—Urabrask the Hidden

"Just tell us how many you want and get out of the way."



"The pain of exploring is less than the pain of not knowing."
—Tamiyo
Lymph, the fluid essence of blinkmoths, is prized by wizards for the rush of intellect it provides.
These spirits of the air are winsome and wild and cannot be truly contained. Only marginally intelligent, they often substitute whimsy for strategy, delighting in mischief and mayhem.

"I wonder what dwelled in the primordial forests before humans existed."
—Elder Rimheit
Left to itself, nature overflows any container, overthrows any restriction, and overreaches any boundary.
"You mortals turn to dust in the blink of an eye. I only expedite your fate."

"Hrrngh! Someday I'm going to hurl this . . . er . . . roll this . . . hrrngh . . . nudge this boulder right down a cliff."

It hunts with unnerving ferocity.



WARNING: THE DOMINARIAN SURGEON GENERAL HAS FOUND THAT SAVAGE BEATINGS CAN LEAD TO CHUMP BLOCKS, LIFE REDUCTION, AND EVEN GAME LOSS.

In the tight-knit doun of Mistmeadow, death is less important than duty.


She wears the talismans of every creature she can evoke.

"Any who drink of Freyalise's bounty drink the mead of rebirth."
—Kaysa, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order
"For four hundred years, I have led armies of conquest. These lands hold nothing that can stand against me."
Rakshasa trade in secrets, amassing wealth from their careful revelation.

Livonya's own nature is a matter of mystery. Nothing is known for sure, merely rumors of unearthly stealth, and unholy alliances.
"There are many different paths. The Great Teacher reveals them all."


After large sections were clear-cut to build Towashi, the once-peaceful Jukai Forest grew violently hostile to outsiders.
"I see all things as they truly are! I see . . . decay in all flesh, and betrayal in every heart."
Whole again in honor and horn.



Anywhere else they would be hunted for their skins, but in Wirewood, they are safe.
Centuries ago, one man's vengeance plunged the world into ice and darkness.
"He has learned much in his long years. And unlike selfish humans, he's willing to share."
—Garruk Wildspeaker

Blood seeps into the stone, and darkness emerges.

You have to hang around the graveyard if you want to catch the talking dead.



The rustling of leaves and a passing shadow are a dryad's only trace.


Between jagged, snowcapped peaks, the dense bands of hardy evergreens provide the perfect cover for roving bands of orc and goblin raiders.


"I am heir to many treasures. None is as precious as knowing how my ancestor lived her life."
Entire platoons have mysteriously vanished from battle, leaving enemy weapons to slice through empty air.
The spell fell upon the crowd like a dragon, ancient and full of death.

"Be careful where your mind wanders. Even in the quietest moments, the kami are listening, and your thoughts give them shape."
—Lady Azami






Adventuring bards recite *Chanter's Epics*, never-ending tales that keep their comrades' minds alert to danger.



As insubstantial—and as insistent—as appetite.



Instinctively drawn to the light of its "mother-sun," each slith follows that sun's path around Mirrodin.
"Secrets? What secrets?"
Every elf in Shadowmoor is charged from birth with a terrible duty: to strike back against the ugliness and darkness, even though they are all around and seemingly without end.
"The beauty of it is they never see it coming. Ever."
—Razzix, sparkmage
"I crept up on him, quiet as a guttermouse. And then suddenly I found myself facedown in a latrine pit behind Tin Street Market."
—Sirislav, Dimir spy
This timeworn relic was responsible for many of Urza's victories, though he never fully comprehended its mystic runes.



"Nothing ruins your day like a blazing zombie."
—Tahngarth

"Some think its immunity to countermagic evolved because of the constant mage attacks on Naya. I think it just ate a bunch of wizards."
—Broka, drumhunter

Sometimes one fireball isn't enough.
Ixidor had only to imagine their ruin and Akroma made it so.




"You are fortunate, my enemy. You have paid the price but once. I never stop paying."


The forest lives in the elf as the elf lives in the forest.

"I do not understand the future I see: the guilds subverted, the world at war, armies bent to a cruel conqueror's will."
"You'll never get to the top if you don't know who's already there."
—Kaya
The parched earth still shielded those few souls with the heart to call it home.

"A massive new Izzet building project with an unstated purpose? Probably fine."
—Zija, Simic mutationist

War-trained jhovalls eat twice their weight in war-trained soldiers daily.
They wait in darkened depths, laughing eagerly.
Like a cross between a spider and a spyglass, but friendlier.
Devil-blades and dripping blood make music Rakdos never tires of hearing.



The Moriok see the artificer as a taskmaster, forcing lazy metal into more potent shapes.




"Mercy? Mercy is for the playground, not the battleground."



If it can't be had here, it can't be had on any world.

Necrites killed Jherana Rure, ending the counterinsurgency.

"The bane of countless shattered weapons, each a failure to slay her."
—Daghatar the Adamant
"Take this item, for instance. How would it destroy us, Relicbane?"
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist

When the winds rock the trees, listen for voices in the creaking of the trunks. If you hear your name, you are one of the Goddess's chosen.

The guards kindled the hearth and locked the door to Ellwen's chamber. By morning, the fire was out and Ellwen was gone.
"I believe life is a series of choices, and you just made the wrong one."


Mischief is its own reward.
The mission of the Nighthearth, Illulia's cult of murderous cinders, is to intensify every pain suffered in Shadowmoor.
The Nightmare arises from its lair in the swamps. As the poisoned land spreads, so does the Nightmare's rage and terrifying strength.
The scent of cooked flesh lingers in the charred landscape of Tarkir.
"Beauty determines value, and we determine beauty."


"You can no more stop me than you can halt the tide."

Lymph, the fluid essence of blinkmoths, is prized by wizards for the rush of intellect it provides.
Nothing can override the hard-wired desire to kill that empowers these rage-driven Necrons.

"Beware lest you lose the substance by grasping at the shadow."
—Aesop, *Fables*, trans. Jacobs
A bristling wave of slivers broke against the Weatherlight's timbers.
"I sometimes watch them build more of their kind and wonder: Will there come a day when they no longer need us?"
—Saku, Futurist technician
Rootwater merfolk are seldom seen these days, but elf corpses are as numerous as ever.



Graffiti of the "leaking spire" symbol is found wherever the renegades have been.
"Make sure those wretches feed only upon the plagued. The blood of the healthy is reserved for me alone."
—Garza Zol, plague queen

"I call upon both predators and protectors, for now is a season of war."
All the trees of the forest are his army, and every leaf his shield.


"Power comes in many shapes. But real power does the shaping."
—Abaddon the Despoiler

Yotian soldiers hoped that one day R&D would make an artifact creature whose name starts with Z. And in their dreams, it's a 4/1.
Wars are won with strength, valor, and numbers—especially numbers.
"Quit pontificating, mage. The last thing we want to do is give it more hot air."
—Tala Vertan, Makindi shieldmate
The loyalty of a felidar is hard won but worth the effort.

"I'd just let the monkey have it if I were you. You can make another, but the same can't be said of your fingers."
—Turni, Greenwheel groundskeeper
Once it consecrated the dead. Now it desecrates them.

"Comfortable even in a furnace? I've never met one who'd accept my wager."
—Talibah, embermage
The surviving militia members reunited with their fallen comrades sooner than they'd hoped.
"There are moments when I feel I could fly like the sunwing. Far away I would soar, but always a golden gale pushes me back."
—Huatli
It took the banning of temporal manipulation at Tolaria West to teach its students the value of time.
"Let's see how badly you want what you came for!"
Even a fragment of a powerstone contains within it not just energy, but space—vast dimensions trapped in fragile crystal.

The Battle of Baal was the bloodiest and most costly in the entire noble history of the Sons of Sanguinius.

Chandra's gift set her apart and others aflame.
"Don't let your mind wander—it might not come back."
—Braids, dementia summoner
"I bring a death none can escape."


Between jagged, snowcapped peaks, the dense bands of hardy evergreens provide the perfect cover for roving bands of orc and goblin raiders.

"Soon I will sleep, eyes closing to a world tarnished with flesh, and then wake to a polished vision."
—Sharuum
"Your flesh is unprepared for my gifts."
"I've never been above throwing the first punch."
Unsuccessful vampire hunters often wind up as ravenous spawn.
Mephidross gives up treasure easily . . . as long as you take its place.

"I have attuned the staff to your screams so that only I may benefit from your pain."
—Volux, disciple of Nin
"Kroxa devours what he may—not for sustenance or pleasure, but because it is his nature. He is unending hunger given form."
—Klothys, god of destiny
The musical sound of its turning triggers the tumblers of revelation.
Where scavengers nest in hollowed-out rib cages and chittering crawlers peer from empty eye sockets, few dare to trespass.

"The mountains scream with the dragons' throats."
—Chianul, Who Whispers Twice
Strong wings make strong winds.
Esper is an expansive canvas painted by precise, controlling hands.
There are precious few names that echo throughout the Multiverse.
No one in Wirewood understands what is happening. They just know it's unnatural—and coming from Krosa.
Some beasts are born not of a mother, but of magic.
"The curse is broken."


"The bonds of loyalty can tie one to the grave."
—Crovax, ascendant evincar


Silverquill first-years welcome discomfort in the classroom, knowing it will prepare them for the years ahead.



Warrik Brutehexer felt betrayed that his aura favored the depths of the Wanderbrine River over its rightful place, hovering around him.

By the sixth day of darkness, the lake was more blood than water.
"When a phoenix nests in a volcano, we rejoice, for it means a hundred years of war."
—Golmak, Keldon warlord






Even in the most barren wastelands, every death feeds more life.
The mine's riches never end, nor do the moans of the spirits doomed to haunt them.
There may exist powers even greater than Phyrexia.

"Beware the blade of dishonor. It kills more silently than war, more quickly than age."
—Sensei Golden-Tail



In establishing the Shu kingdom, Liu Bei's forces fought against Ma Chao at Chengdu. Eventually, Ma Chao surrendered and became one of Liu Bei's Tiger Generals.

"Xenagos has become what he once despised: a tyrant and an oppressor."

This spell, like many attributed to Drafna, was actually the work of his wife Hurkyl.

An elvish duel is a thing of beauty: the warriors' grace, the crash of steel, then the artful spray of blood.



"To a creature like that, we must seem like, well, bugs."
—Dars Gostok, Firefist captain

"Even the highest mountain can be ground to dust."
—Lucilde Fiksdotter, Leader of the Order of the White Shield
"I run, and thunder follows."


"I have a gift. The ability to sense encroaching darkness has saved many lives. And yet constantly feeling the force of so much ugliness is a terrible burden."




A haunted fog known as the Nebelgast shrouds the cities along Nephalia's coast.
Treefolk and elves share a common interest in the forests, but really the elves just feel at home with the view from above.
Druids hold certain plants to be sacred and use their leaves and wood as a spellcasting focus.
"A renegade rallying the rabble does not a true crusader make."
—Irini Sengir

"So many have died in search of that map. And now it appears in the hands of the arrogant child Chandra Nalaar."

Kytheon and his irregulars worked outside the law to bring justice to the streets of Akros.
"Zendikar will not surrender, and neither can we."



She follows the old tributaries built when merrows still shaped the tides.
"We'll scale these cliffs, traverse Brittle Bridge, and then fight our way down the volcanic slopes on the other side."
"Isn't the shortest route through the canyon?"
"Yes."
"So shouldn't we—"
"No."

"From a great bonfire at the dawn of time, the first Gruul kindled their rage. The same flame burns in you."
—Kroshkar, Gruul shaman

Kjeldorans who fled battle were exiled to the wastes. Those who strayed near Tresserhorn were pressed into service in Haakon's army.


The bears had been isolated on an island for hundreds of years, until the island sank and the bears didn't.

The lammasu ruled the velds before the city grew. Now they roam Ravnica's skies, but their ancient enemies have not forgotten them.

"Kjeldorans should rule supreme, and to the rest, death!"
—Avram Garrisson, Leader of the Knights of Stromgald
"Some are born to greatness. You were born to scrub greatness's floors."

For the Sun Empire, the Immortal Sun is a symbol of national identity. When they reclaim it, the Empire will flourish once more.
"I see your future, mantled in ash."
A mother only a child could love.



These beings embody the essence of true heroes long dead. Summoned from the dreamrealms, they rise to meet their enemies.
"The Obzedat have revived you with purpose. Don't squander their blessing."
—Teysa Karlov, Grand Envoy of Orzhov



The intricate dynamics of Rundvelt Goblin affairs are often confused with anarchy. The chaos, however, is the chaos of a thundercloud, and direction will sporadically and violently appear. Pashalik Mons and his Raiders are the thunderhead that leads in the storm.
From here, the path to anywhere may be found.

Gravity is truly what you make of it.


"You know you have achieved true power if the sea itself seeks to emulate your greatness."
—Vy Covalt, Neurok agent
These are its last days. Mourning is over. Rage remains.


"Until the world unites in vengeful fury and Phage is destroyed, I will not stay my hand."
—Akroma, angelic avenger
Autonomy is only skin deep.
"Gods do not sleep soundly in the earth's embrace."
—Mayael the Anima
The vedalken saw the myr as toys, unaware of the intelligence lurking behind their empty eyes.
Once a simple tool, it—like everything else on Zendikar—has been turned into a weapon against the Eldrazi.
Grimeblotters spend so much time in the Dark Meanders that they're able to bring a piece with them wherever they go.
"Fate is not as fixed as you might think."
「たったひとつの植物が教えてくれることの多さに驚くと思います。」
――ウィザーブルームの学部長、リセッテ

Due to some late-night partying, the chicken missed the group photo.





"Harmony is no longer an option."
—Ghired, Conclave exile
"The best denials are simply that: a beginning and end unchanged, a dream with no memory."

"As the winds abated, there was a shower of dragonscales, then nothing more."
—Azeworai, "The Unruly Wind"
In the heart of Setessa, the warriors of Leina Tower defend the polis and train its daughters.


There's lots of time like the present.
Loyal in battle, hearty in stew.

"Only the decadent think magic should be pristine and without cost."





He's boss because he's smart enough to get out of the way.
"O! call back yesterday, bid time return."
—William Shakespeare, *King Richard the Second*
Nagas wielding twin daggers excel at the fighting technique known as the Bite of Rhonas.


"I believe many worlds will bow to Phyrexia. Mirrodin is merely the first."
—Sheoldred, Whispering One
Dead or alive, true leaders can inspire an entire army.

In the gardens of the Conclave, order and beauty are the roots of power.
The merchant did guarantee the new bait would bring in something big.

"We are Odric's sword. We strike without fear, for his mind has divined how our foe will be slain."


The calligraphy of combat is written with strokes of sudden blood.






"Feast, for your next meal may be your last!"

"Your blood, your marrow, your spirit—all are mine."
—Mayvar, minion of Geth

"Comes right outta th' ground. If ya can smell it, it's too late."
—Keevy Bogsbury
Nature grows solutions to its problems.

"From this day forward, we confront this world together, lifting each other up."


"Only wisdom and virtue can truly win men's devotion."
—Liu Bei

Elvish battle-magic has evolved two specialties: inflicting wounds that scar, and healing wounds without scarring. Politics determines the recipients of each.

"What was once formed by masons, shaped by smiths, or given life by mages, I will return to the embrace of the earth."
Purphoros shaped the oreads out of stray coals from his forge.
"As long as we have walked this world, we have known it as a harsh and unforgiving place."
—*The Invokers' Tales*



"I noticed you were short on party favors, so I brought my own."
—Higa, slayer-captain of Gatstaf
"Inspiration is found by looking outward."
—Oviya Pashiri, sage lifecrafter
"Once you see past the veil we call 'reality,' altering your own shape is elementary."


"Where metal is tainted and wood is scarce, we are best armed by faith."
—Tavalus, acolyte of Korlis


The noble paladins draw strength from the courage of others.

Blessed by the hands of Jin-Gitaxias.
"'I've seen hornworms big as a man's fist,' the traveler said, and nodded soberly when our jaws went slack at his ignorance."
—Afari, *Tales*
"Let the land dwellers know the coast is no longer the border between our realms. A new age of empire has begun."
Imps are just intelligent enough to have an understanding of cruelty.
Many mages have been consumed by their work.
Sometimes you just have to go for it.
Spilled blood always begets more of the same.


The symbol of the Conclave is one of unity, with tree supporting sun and sun feeding tree.





Ulamog's tentacles, their touch like burning ice, rummaged through his soul and stung his memories one by one.
The Returned retain no memory of their identities, but sometimes they mindlessly attempt familiar tasks.
"The tiniest mouse speaks louder to me than all the festival crowds on Tin Street."
A blazing sun that never sets.
Six feet of earth muffled his cries.
"In your misguided attempt to subvert the law, you have eloquently explained why the law must exist."

"The hero with the magic sword slays the dragon? Not this time."
—Nicol Bolas
Often found browsing on the upper canopies of Ixalan's jungles, whiptails are known to absently bat away anything foolish enough to interrupt their meal.




The Izzet learn something from every lesson they teach.
"Don't these goons have anything better to do?"
—Joskun, An-Havva Constable
The less you have, the harder you fight for it.


"I've seen those Trolls devour a drowning sailor faster than his lungs could fill with water."
—Zeki, Reef Pirate
Its host's final curse lies captured within.
Rishada is the gateway to free trade—but the key will cost you.


"They're not worth much, but they're easy to catch."
"The Northern Beacon flared, and even before the drawbridge finished its descent, the knights charged out."
—*Legend of the Gilded Knights*
"The forest will surround you with its life if you are still and calm."

"It's not just you. Everyone makes it angry."
—Ardenoth, elvish nature advocate
He cursed the wind. He cursed the cold. But by stepping on the ice, he cursed himself.
"*This* is what I needed all that alloy for."
—Arima, to Emire

Its collapse is like the lashing out of a long-dead civilization that resents being forgotten.
It lurks just under the surface, using the algae-choked tar pits of Jund as both home and hunting blind.
"Why listen to the mumblings of wizards when the lash speaks true?"



The thunder of its hooves beats dreams into despair.

"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim."
—Sisay, captain of the *Weatherlight*

"Duty and law are the foundation on which civilization stands. They must not fall, for when they do, they take everything with them."
—Lord Konda
After the fourth time Chandra left a place engulfed in flames, she decided to just go ahead and make it her thing.

"Phyrexians destroyed my village, but they cannot break my hope."

"Zeki sails with a dead crew not out of villainy, but pragmatism."
—Baron Sengir
"I will keep these lights up until the day I die if I think there's a chance that Will's still out there!"
—Joyce Byers





As the blaze raced towards her, Syr Ameril closed her eyes and pictured Castle Ardenvale so her last thoughts would be of home.



Tzeentch's beastmen twist reality as they themselves are twisted.


"You will not be trained here. You will be forged."
—Commander Yaszen

Her sword sings more beautifully than any choir.
These spirits of the air are winsome and wild and cannot be truly contained. Only marginally intelligent, they often substitute whimsy for strategy, delighting in mischief and mayhem.
"You don't find many old werewolf hunters."
—Paulin, trapper of Somberwald



"Your veil's curse won't stop me, deathmage. I have taken down countless night hunters. This dark plane is not big enough for you to hide."
—Garruk Wildspeaker, to Liliana Vess

"Phyrexians pollute everything they touch, so the solution is simple: don't let them touch anything."
—Teferi

There is an eagerness among the Quiver of Kessig to prove they are the equal of the other cathar orders.
"Never look too deep, where the waters turn dark. What the sea has hidden there may not stay down forever."
—Jaby, Silundi Sea nomad
She arrived like a meteorite, and the enemy fell in a shock wave of holy vengeance.
In the rapture of his Blood Fast, he destroyed the navigator's tools and steered the ship to shore by faith alone.

Not all tickets can be exchanged for prizes.
"I too shall be brought low by death, but until then let me win glory."
—Homer, *Iliad, Book XVIII*

At the first sign of enemy scouts, Jula grinned and strapped on his diplomacy helmet.



In a rare display of ingenuity, the Orcs invented an incredibly destructive weapon. Most Orcish artillerists are those who dared criticize its effectiveness.
Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.
"Anger is fleeting; remorse is eternal."
—Karn, silver golem
"Brute force can sometimes kick down a locked door, but knowledge is a skeleton key."
"There is great wisdom in rushing headlong into combat . . . if you're prepared."
—Kenjek, captain of the Thousand Swords
In war, as in society, position is everything.

The kithkin mind-bond is even tighter in Shadowmoor, reinforcing the unity of their community to the point of xenophobia.



A last wisp of paradise in a fallen world.

"What is mana but possibility, an idea not yet given form?"
—Jhoira, master artificer

"In the gathering there is strength for all who founder, renewal for all who languish, love for all who sing."
—*Song of All*, canto 642

It ignores such insignificant forces as time, entropy, and death.
"Devils need no reason to stir up chaos. The chaos itself is their reward."
—Rem Karolus, Fiendslayer
A single stone can start an avalanche.
Six feet of earth muffled his cries.



"The slivers became adept at provoking a fear response in other species."
—Hastric, Thunian scout
"It is from Phage that this evil springs, and to her it shall return."
—Akroma, angelic avenger
"Alone, it's a fortification. At the head of its troops, it's a battering ram."
—Skerk Hobnett, wilderness guide
Her horn is heard across Innistrad, lifting the hearts of the righteous.

"Memories can't simply be washed away. The mind must be scrubbed clean."
—Ambassador Laquatus
"The southern fortress taken by invaders? Heh, sure . . . when elephants fly."
—Brezard Skeinbow, captain of the guard




Flesh wounds are meaningless to those who discard their flesh so readily.
"Now I can dedicate myself fully to zoetimancy and void theory!"


"Faugh!" snorted Tahngarth. "Why would it make a meal of something like you?" Squee looked relieved. "No," he continued, "you'd make a much better toothpick."
Distant thunder rumbled, a dread forewarning of Keranos's displeasure.





It's as solid as the club in its hand—and about as subtle.



Legend says a mighty angel appears to pilgrims in need who reach this lofty height.

"How can there be doubt in the presence of such blessings?"
—Ukhat, vizier of initiation
The cup was a gift from the sphinx Tameron, who hoped that those who drank from it would live long enough to decrypt the sphinxes' wisdom.
"You are loved, child."
Izzet-designed conductors atop Sunhome charge empty sets of armor that give form to the fluctuating elementals.



"Do not react to force in kind. Turn it aside. Direct it to where it can do no harm."
—Meloku the Clouded Mirror
That which endures, survives.

"Where a once-proud human city stood, only the ruins of Numai remain, deep amid rotting bamboo and plagued by oni."
—*The History of Kamigawa*
Its tines cannot be rung by mere physical force. Only magic of great power can start its eldritch resonance.
"Melt that which was never frozen."
—Spellbomb inscription



First death. Then Shauku.
Make every blow count.










Made of bone and boiled in blood, a Rakdos signet is not considered finished until it has been used as a murder weapon.








From the moment they arrived, wedding guests were met with a pageant of wealth and excess.
"We didn't know where it came from or where it was going. All we knew was that we did not matter."
—Akiri, kor line-slinger

Like his mother before him, Darigaaz gave his life defending Dominaria from the tyranny of self-styled "gods."

Structures built from darksteel yield to neither assault nor age.



It may wear your face, but its mind is its own.
The weight of her conviction balances on the harmony of her soul.

"Thanks! You shouldn't have."


Designed by Brad Muir

In the first moments, the gate to the afterlife opened, and the people were prostrate in the light of the God-Pharaoh.
"I am who I pretend to be."
The impact sent the soldiers scattering—then something came out of the crater.




Trained in the Samite arts, Orim serves as the healer aboard the *Weatherlight*. She is quick with languages and was educated at the same Argivian university as Hanna. A student by nature, Orim keeps a diary of all her new discoveries—both physical and spiritual—during her travels.
"Kefnet taught us to turn obstacles into advantages."
—Neponem, vizier of Kefnet

The vizier's wisdom proved invaluable in untangling the Mercadian knot of lies.


"Will you be strong and stand with me?"



When Urza's war machines became too costly, Tawnos's weaponry replaced them.





"I can see the next star system from here!"
The flames of war consumed most of Argoth's treefolk. Vengeance consumed the rest.
"I do believe your heresy will prove more difficult now that you have more pressing concerns."
—Bishop Argust
It cares more about preserving the herd's territory than about preserving itself.

"I certainly would have accepted my offer of eternal life. But if you choose death instead, who am I to argue?"
「奴らは私の方法を信用していない。しかし成果が必要なとき、奴らが探すの誰だと思う？」
——リム＝トゥールの決まり文句



She wept, not from perfect understanding, but from serene gratitude.
The weapon wields the hand that holds it.


In the Shifting Wastes, more are killed by sand than by steel.


"Hold that thought."
—Pemmin, Riptide survivor
"Roam as you will, your roots remain in the strong earth of your Rising."

The Eldrazi hunger without limit and consume without pause.
"So large and so quiet—a combination best avoided."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry

Once a welcoming hub for explorers, Affa became a place of guarded tongues and quick defenses.
"And to think, a year ago I was picking pockets in Waterdeep."
"Ghouls smashed the door, but I heard the call of the gryffs and knew we were saved."
—Ekka, shopkeeper of Hanweir


Goblins resolve disputes by splitting everything straight down the middle.
For years, the five families ruled New Capenna in uneasy peace, and the city prospered.


The stone whispers tales of darkness and fire. She replies, "Tell me more."

It sleeps with its claws open.

"This undemanding vegetation takes root in a mote of dust but grows incredibly quickly."
—Simic research notes


One Viscerid's death is often another's gain.
"Touched by moroii"
—Undercity slang meaning "to grow old"
"Why do our pies squeak? It's all the faeries, mice, and prickly-hogs we stuff inside."
—Borb of the Squeaking Pie warren


Vulshok sorcerers train by leaping into electrified storm clouds. Dead or alive, they come back down with smiles on their faces.

"Fetch the pestridder, Paka—we've got dwarves in the rutabagas!"
—Jamul, Femeref farmer
With an armory of light, even the squire may champion her people.
Kneel before her Impurrial Meowjesty, Pawlina von Whiskerface III. It makes it much easier to give her pets.
No fear. No sense. And soon, no lunch.
"Every guild dreads infiltration. I should know—I've been a member of all of them."
—Lazav
Woodland geists concluded that Emrakul would be unable to warp the denizens of the forest if the geists got there first.

"You think they know we're here?"
—Orlo, goblin raider

He's boss because he's smart enough to get out of the way.
I howl my soul to the moon, and the moon howls with me.
"Not the graveyard shift again!"

A Rakdos party is a flop if anyone lives to talk about it.


To a siegehorn, there is no such thing as a dead end.
It is unwise to insult the god of the forge. It is also unwise to stand near anyone else who has insulted him.

"If you come across a raptor in the city, stay perfectly still. At least then you'll be well rested when you die."
—Captain Brandis Thorn

When the gods go to war, mortals pay the highest price.
" . . . [W]hen the trees bow down their heads, / The wind is passing by."
—Christina Rossetti,
"Who Has Seen the Wind?"

The elite guard of the Mesa High Priests, the Ivory Guardians were created to protect the innocent and faithful.
"Center of the Sea, Eye of the World, Shrine of Enlightenment. Seek it for answers. Seek it for healing. Seek it and return transformed."
—Scroll fragment from the ruins of Minamo
"In memories, we can find our deepest reserves of strength."
"We hold sacred the powers of light and life. Truth and honor are our greatest weapons."
—Alabaster creed



"The Eldrazi may not be intimidated, but if it boosts the goblins' confidence, I see no reason to discourage it."
—Jalun, Affa sentry
Everything is flammable in the Burning Isles, even the mana itself.
"Their only dreams are of full stomachs."
—Kleon the Iron-Booted

The undisputed master of the mountains of Shiv.
Never forget your feet
—Elvish expression meaning "watch your step"
Dromoka dragons foster trust among their subjects, while the other clans must spend their time quelling rebellion.

Raugrin's coastline can be quite beautiful, as long as you avoid the volcanic dinosaurs, the sea dinosaurs, and the roaming beach dinosaurs.
To a goblin, value is based on the four S's: shiny, stabby, smelly, and super smelly.

"Once the brew gets the brains nice and pickled, they're a lot easier to pick through."
"Success is found where others fear to look."
—Ara, renegade smuggler
Cliffs echo and branches quake at the roar of life.
Raked by vertical spikes of glass and stone, Ravnica's vistas offer only a rare glimpse of the horizon.
Orcish lumberjacks spent the night sharpening their blades and resting for a day of labor. They awoke to find that the forest had been making its own preparations.
Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.

Amid rumors of war, the third act of *The Absolution of the Guildpact* was quickly rewritten as a tragedy.

"All clouds should be so organized."
—Isperia

Viashino thrashes keep iguanars as hunting companions, giving them wounded captives as playthings.
"The coaster was so gentle, I was able to write my review while I was still on it."
—*Salzon's Ride Review*



The three wizards knew only that this isle held a great mystery—and that patience alone would solve it.





Chub Toad, Chub Toad
At the door.
Run away quick
Or you'll run no more.
—Traditional children's rhyme
"A boon from the angels should never be cast aside."
—Manfried Ulmach, Chief Inquisitor

"Heed the lessons of our time: the forms of water may move the land itself and hold captive the fires within."
—Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran Royal Mage
"There's nothing I like better than watching a street full of soldiers kicking down the doors of the guilty and the impure."
—Avram Garrisson, Leader of the Knights of Stromgald

The course of the falling star always ends in ruin.
On guard for larger dangers, we underestimated the power and speed of the Imp's muck-crusted claws.

Trained in the arts of stealth, the royal assassins choose their victims carefully, relying on timing and precision rather than brute force.

Rath's new evincar eliminated the brutish moggs and took a new slave race, one more reminiscent of her own feline grace.





She's always willing to lend a hand. It just won't be her own.
Angels and demons aren't the only ones listening to your prayers.
"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim."
—Sisay, captain of the *Weatherlight*
"Heed the lessons of our time: the forms of water may move the land itself and hold captive the fires within."
—Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran Royal Mage

As the Phyrexian contagion corroded Karn's body, the praetors whispered psalms to corrupt his mind.
Worse than the years of aging was the burden of memory. The young monk lost his youth and gained a vicarious lifetime of hardship and woe.

At the market, no one heeded Hilda's frantic mooing. The fae curse was turning out even worse than she had feared.

Reinforcements . . . or refreshments?
"Fire hurts them almost as much as the chaos that follows. Almost."
—The Western Paladin
"An ancient, powerful force has overtaken the valley. I sympathize for its former inhabitants, but I rejoice for the land itself."
—Olanti, Muraganda druid

They wouldn't admit it, but some people join the Cabaretti just for the food.



"Behold the groodion! Ichor-slurper, oozing fiend. Foulest wonder underground. Grandest vermin of them all!"
—Zalin the Gutter Bard


The sound of every twisted secret tempts you to hear another.
First, whispers of ancient days. Then, visions of things to come.

"As a safety measure, our foam is made from the softest metals available."
—Randa, day care blacksmith




Phyrexia strives to simulate natural life, but it can't resist improving on the design.
"If only my poxes were as infectious as their zealotry."
—Savra
"Wait, are *we* the decoys?"
The Kargan tribes share legends of the victory their ancestors won over the Akoum Skyclave, and its horrendous cost.
"No shadow remains for you to hide in."
—Caparocti Sunborn

The smallest seed of regret can bloom into redemption.

"The best servants are made from those who died without a scratch."
—Sidisi, khan of the Sultai




Not all silences are easily broken.



"Ach! Hans, run! It's the Lhurgoyf!"
—Saffi Eriksdotter, last words





"Is it true that the apes wear furs of gold when they marry?"
—Rana, Suq'Ata market fool




If it can survive the Furnace, you don't want it near you.
Anything sent into a plagued world is bound to come back infected.
"It's a proven fact that sling-stones from the dawn side of the riverbank sail the farthest and truest."
—Deagan, cenn of Burrenton

As the sun reaches its zenith on the day of the solstice, a castle shimmers into view on the hilltop, just as the ancient text predicted.
Multani's mind grasped for consciousness as rage itself rebuilt his body.
It is everything and nothing.
"Many hands make light work."
—Ludevic, necro-alchemist






"I have the shot. Shall I take it?"
—Varis, Silverymoon ranger
When the shards merged, Mayael found herself the general of Naya's mightiest army.
His reputation precedes him—and so does his weapon.


"When gods become apathetic, the people will worship anyone who answers their pleas."
—Kiora
That gnat was still hovering by the venison, and now both looked delicious.
The weapon wields the hand that holds it.
The farther he roamed from Jund and its dragons, the more he felt their essence in himself.
"Birth and death are both reversible."
—Nicol Bolas


"A debtor's soul has little value, except as a warning to others who might consider defaulting on their loans."
—Ubea, Orzhov ministrant



"See the beauty in death: the clean white bones lying in the fertile soil and the brightly colored moonglove sprouting from the fell earth."
The machine does the growling, so the ogre's free to smile.
Drownyard floods and unnatural frost made the once peaceful boardwalk deceptively treacherous.
A shepherd's crook is useful for cleaning bits of wool out of the teeth.
When he's threatened, the forest buzzes and the air hums with dragonfly wings.
"Above all, a well crafted Thrull should be hideous—blasted of countenance and twisted of limb—to inspire fear and revulsion."
—Endrek Sahr, Master Breeder


"Behold astronomy's contribution to war."
—Fennor Rhyl, starcaller
Heretic cultures came to planet Sovereign in search of resources and precious artifacts. They found something else.
2020 Legacy Champion







The Tyranids advanced inexorably across the galaxy in their living Hive Ships, with one singular goal: to consume all.

Before labs or lectures, there was insight.


As the Phyrexian contagion corroded Karn's body, the praetors whispered psalms to corrupt his mind.

"It is not a goal, but a process—the process of creating the perfect Phyrexia."

A plague on the curious.

"The wonders of Nyx do not belong solely to the gods."

With a steady diet of lawbreakers, Azorius griffins inevitably develop a resistance to the contraband magic that taints much of their prey.

Earth elementals have the eternal strength of stone and the endurance of mountains. Primordially connected to the land they inhabit, they take a long-term view of things, scorning the impetuous haste of short-lived mortal creatures.
"I do not know which gives me more pride: the legions of soldiers marching in thunderous lockstep, or the cry of the skyknights riding their rocs like jagged lightning overhead."
—Razia
"What do you have that I cannot obtain?"
—Mairsil, called the Pretender


"We'll scale these cliffs, traverse Brittle Bridge, and then fight our way down the volcanic slopes on the other side."
"Isn't the shortest route through the canyon?"
"Yes."
"So shouldn't we—"
"No."

Titania rewards all who honor the forest by making them a living part of it.







A single germ can kill more soldiers than ten thousand blades.


"One moment I was walking along the beach, and the next I was high in the air, staring into a hideous smiling face."
—Tarub, Suq'Ata sailor




"The Gitaxians whisper among themselves of other worlds. If they exist, we must bring Phyrexia's magnificence to them."


Dreams of dark nights to come are said to stir in the minds of scheming hollowsages.


The animal and vegetable categories kind of merged over time.
"Mana grows and changes like the roots of a plant. Like a plant, it must be nurtured."
—Nissa Revane

The Izzet signet is redesigned often, each time becoming closer to a vanity portrait of Niv-Mizzet.

One quiet word sets off the stampede.
The hardest part of his training is learning not to eat the boar.
More than one mage was driven insane by the sound of the Millstone relentlessly grinding away.
"Just as leaves fall and the tree blooms again, one day I will fall and the Conclave will endure."

For the more refined vampire, breaking a victim's will is far more satisfying than simply taking their blood.
"The light of beauty protects our journeys through darkness."


"Your purpose may change along with your shape, but you will serve regardless."

"I don't know you, but that hammer rings a bell."
Where swords fail, faith transcends.

Its wings disturb more than air.






"There is no greater burden than choosing who to save."
—Kamahl, druid acolyte
The dead know lessons the living haven't learned.

Idealism fits him better than his armor.
"Perfection is elusive. Let us try again."
"Diametrically opposing energies in self-sealed plasmodermic bubbles make great pets!"
—Trivaz, Izzet mage




"I don't think they'll appreciate my . . . adjustments."
—Karavin, renegade saboteur



"I am the Arch-fiend, the Despoiler of Worlds, and by my hands shall the false Emperor fall."
—Abaddon the Despoiler
Death just encourages life the more.
"So like men are they: a hardened shell with fragile flesh beneath."
—Selenia, dark angel




And then the Archangel Anthius spoke to them, saying, "Fear shall be vanquished by the Sword of Faith."



Few can overcome an assault of such aggressive serenity.
"Don't be so quick to reclaim the thawing lands. They might have acquired a taste for freedom."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter

"Eron would be much less of a hassle if only he were mortal."
—Reyhan, Samite Alchemist





They brandish their latest theories as warriors would wield weapons.
This spell, like many attributed to Drafna, was actually the work of his wife and former student, Hurkyl.

No matter how deep you bury it, some evil refuses to stay dead.
A hundred generations has he mentored, a hundred armies has he crushed beneath his feet, yet only a hundred words has he ever spoken, each more revered than a hundred books.



"Relax. It's quite harmless. And it will dissolve completely in a month or two."
—Navona, Simic field tester

Few remember that Ashnod's defilement of Terisiare's resources outstripped even that of her peers.

Entry 434: There's more to Avacyn's madness . . .
Fast and lethal, with a penchant for the weak and infirm.

A crash of rhinos in my head
—Femeref expression meaning "a severe head pain"




"Come, come, my hungry little friends! There's plenty for everyone."


"I'd rather see the guilds contend together with words in the halls of power, than in the streets with swords."
—Jace Beleren

Dragons are extinct on Tarkir, but Abzan magic still emulates their endurance.


"If the whole world burns, I'll never grow cold."
"Occasionally, there are those who refuse to appreciate all that the God-Pharaoh provides for us."
—Temmet, vizier of Naktamun
Her roots connect her to the forest's wishes.


"Harmonic resonance infusions amplify the natural abilities of the song mages of Smifa."
—Drafna, research notes

"I implore you not to forget the horrors of the past. You would have us start the Brothers' War anew!"
—Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi Heretic




Even when a giant's tantrum turns the sky into a chaotic gale, the path of the balloonist never falters.




Banking steeply, the aven streaked toward the ground—and vanished.
Those with knowledge are wise to listen to those with imagination.



"Be advised: suspect is nine stories tall, marble hair, answers to Saint Gusztav."


"Let your heels point you home."
—Ancient blessing
"No matter where we cat warriors go in the world, those stupid slobberers find us."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight*
In the adrenaline-fueled chaos, she hadn't even felt the bite.
Zendikar's elves have developed innovative methods to mitigate the effects of the Roil.

Bright flames quell the darkest nightmares.


"The protective wards of the church have weakened, and no one can tell us why. It's time to look to our own defenses."
—Gregel, militia leader
It beckons silently, waiting in the darkness.
"Every cave-in is Moradin telling you to leave the earth where it is."
—Halgar, dwarven recluse
Change is a denizen of Shadowmoor as much as ouphes and noggles are.





"Leave the door to the past even slightly ajar and it could be blown off its hinges."

"Success is found where others fear to look."
—Ara, renegade smuggler
The Changer of Ways often sends glimpses of possible futures to his most loyal acolytes, visions that would destroy lesser minds.


Feed on food, you eventually rot. Feed on rot, you live forever.
—Kraul saying
"I done forgot more than you'll ever know, pipsqueak."
"Yeah—that's your problem."


After lightning struck the cliffs, the ore became iron, the iron became steel, and the steel became greaves. The lightning never left.


Once each year, the sun's rays reach the hidden chamber of Velis Vel, and the changelings congregate from afar to bathe in the ever-shifting light.

His mind was lost long before his flesh.
Seeking the company of plants ensures that your wits will go to seed.
"The spirit of the flame is the spirit of change."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain
The bigger they are, the harder they avoid work.
One of the most ferocious and deadly gargantuans, the thoctar never sees its worshippers, but it often awakens surrounded by gifts and sacrifices.
A pretty bauble of persecution.



The land drank power from the Mirari as though it had thirsted forever.
"Make the exhaust vents smaller next time!"
—Urza, notes to his engineers
When Worzel summoned Segovian angels to fight Thomil's Gargantikari gnats, the ensuing battle numbered among the Multiverse's least destructive.


"This is it! All the cryptoliths point here!"
—Jace Beleren


"Because I am incapable of tears does not mean I have no need to shed them."
—Karn, silver golem

The only livestock that will survive for long in the Smelting District, ember beasts serve many functions—none of them willingly.

Only a bloodchief can create vampires. The rest sire nulls, who become mindless beasts in their former bodies.



Rather than sheltering her young, the female Fungusaur often injures her own offspring, thereby ensuring their rapid growth.
"To invent is to rebel."
—Pia Nalaar

Is it an amalgamation of faded memories or the projection of a half-remembered dream? Neither answer offers any comfort.
The stronghold of Theros's light.

"Don't worry, there's plenty for everyone."
—Vickon, Eleventh Company battlemage



The mind sings, though at times it sings a dirge.
"For us, a rope represents the ties that bind the kor. For you, it's more literal."
Without Ardenvale's loyalty, the realm would greedily devour itself.
Shiny polished silver can ward off many creatures, but it attracts others.
"Nothing clears a battlefield like a Deathstrike missile. Wait. Is something moving out there?"
—Commmander Zander At'lan, Tallarn 115th Armoured Regiment
A master of tactics, the Lord of Atlantis makes his people bold in battle merely by arriving to lead them.

"There is great wisdom in rushing headlong into combat . . . if you're prepared."
—Kenjek, captain of the Thousand Swords
"If only an angel's wings could shelter us all."
—Barrin, master wizard

The mage breathed in life-giving air and breathed out death-bringing fire.
After large sections were clear-cut to build Towashi, the once-peaceful Jukai Forest grew violently hostile to outsiders.


"Lord Silumgar has given you a second chance to please him."
—Siara, the Dragon's Mouth
Eyeballs that portend unpleasant futures become slimy snacks instead.

A threefold calamity with a single will.
The greatest challenge isn't the stifling heat but the crushing weight of those who failed before.
"May the memory of our fallen heroes ensnare the violent hearts of lesser men."
—Great Threshold of Monserkat inscription
"There is no shame in solitude. The lone knight may succeed where a hundred founder."
—Arna Kennerüd, skyknight
Chainer's madness personified, it exists only to slaughter the innocent.
"Careful. A drop of blood here means death for us all."
—Kalek, mountain guide
Not every tale ends in glory.


Stinking of rot, it leaps between gravestones in search of its next meal.
"My finest warrior was lost to the Phyrexians. I pray that Lady Selenia died honorably."
—Radiant, archangel
"Let my hate fuel your fury."


"The Guard will forever stand ready. For them, death is merely an inconvenience, not an ending."
—Chaeska, Keeper of Tresserhorn


"We could have peace, but Varchild would rather have the maps of the new Kjeldor drawn in Balduvian blood."
—King Darien of Kjeldor
"I welcome it. The pasture is cleared of weeds and the wolves are frozen solid."
—Lumi, goatherd
"I'd rather see the guilds contend together with words in the halls of power, than in the streets with swords."
—Jace Beleren
"Some merfolk choose to rest their fins in the water. I believe wisdom exists not only where we were born but where we were told not to go."

"The most powerful dreams visit those who shelter in a dragon's skull."
—Chianul, Who Whispers Twice
"When lost souls wander into the woods, the wilds have a way of showing them who they really are."
—Rahilda, Vildin-Pack alpha
Shackles of gold are still shackles.


Oh, does your nose itch?





"I won't pollute my blade with your blood, demon. You'll die by your own axe!"






Dreams' riches are easily spent.
—Suq'Ata adage

"Reel it in. No, wait! Throw it back!"
—Gertrude, deep-sea angler

"It may not look like much, but it's a good old door with strong wards. It'll hold."
—Olgard of the Skiltfolk
"The Silumgar creep around our borders and infiltrate our aeries. We must remain ever watchful."
—Golran, Dromoka captain
As easily as the dryads could close a fist, so could the branches and underbrush entangle.
"...There was no trace
Of aught on that illumined face...."
—Samuel Coleridge, "Phantom"

The Chamber of the Guildpact stands as a reminder that even the bitterest struggles can end in cooperation.
Carving lines through the sky, kite sailors map trails for the pilgrims below to follow.

Teroh dreams of his enemies' doom.
The fae know when they're not wanted. That's precisely why they show up.
"After death you face paradise, damnation, or Tariel."
—Priest's teaching
After years of training, the Druid becomes one with nature, drawing power from the land and returning it when needed.




"Leviathan, too! Can you catch him with a fish-hook or run a line round his tongue?"
—*The Bible*, Job 41:1


One splash of the spring's water knocks you clear into last week.



When tempers run high, it's easy to lose your head.
The Clams down in Clamville
All scootered and skittled—
"The three is no more!"
The Clam fiddler fiddled.


Her centuries-long search is ended.

The rumor that contact with flowstone would reveal Phyrexian sleeper agents was spread mostly by Phyrexian sleeper agents.

Ancient yet ever-young, it is wise and subtle—and cruel and reckless as the spring itself.
Those who hear her go mad with inspiration.

The ground erupted in time with the hedron's thrum, a dirge of the last days.
Steady and silent as the deep current, the reejerey guides the course of the school.

"My family sheltered in her light, the dark was content to wait."
—Crovax




Action: This creature is a BLOODHOUND formed entirely of WATER.

The angel remembers her past lives like dreams. Her song held up meadows. Her blade drove back darkness. Her wings carried her across the ages.
Some griffins are able to pluck mystic auras from the Æther that are hidden from other mortals.


"The fishers will throw out their nets and draw them back filled with dust."
—Oracle *en*-Vec

Flame doesn't kneel to Phyrexia.




These are its last days. Better to grow broad and heavy. Better that the enemy is crushed beneath its carcass.
Everybody knows that to ward off trouble, you knock on wood. But usually it's better to make a wall out of the wood and let trouble do the knocking.
The works of one god last only as long as the patience of another.



Snaking remnants of nature directed by a body of thought and progress, the oracles embody all that is Simic.

"They don't move much, but then again, if you get caught in its web, it has all the time in the world to get to you."
—Saidah, Joraga hunter

"Great minds bleed alike."
Death is a secret he is willing to share.
"Know your foes' strengths as well as their weaknesses."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
The upside to not thinking about the consequences is that you'll always surprise those who do.
Pardic barbarians didn't complain when the Order started blaming every crisis on the Cabal.

The guards kindled the hearth and locked the door to Ellwen's chamber. By morning, the fire was out and Ellwen was gone.



Infinite possibilities contained in a finite space.
"It triggers the hive's period of Ætheric fertility—a time when even feeding is a lower priority than reproduction."
—Rukarumel, field journal




"I think someone is stealing from my laboratory. It had better not be you!"
—Geralf, letter to Gisa


"Before the blessed assault begins, we must seek specimens that are well-adapted to our way of . . . life."
—Sheoldred, Whispering One

With such great footsteps, everything is within walking distance.
"In memories, we can find our deepest reserves of strength."

Samut battled her way through the hordes, shouting the names of those who'd died in her crop and those she hoped yet to save.
Adventuring bards recite *Chanter's Epics*, never-ending tales that keep their comrades' minds alert to danger.
As their supplies of etherium dwindled, mechanists sent gargoyles farther and farther afield in search of salvage.


"My summoning begins your debt, planeswalker."

"Approach my tower on bended knee or depart from it as ash upon the wind."
—Gadwick, the Wizened
"I have spied them, wandering and watching—but for what? I fear they watch for us."
—Yonat of Amrou
"A place like this makes me wonder if there's more to life than blood and treasure . . . Nah."
—Boyl Bucksalt, Storm Fleet swab

Plate mail, the skin of the chest, the rib cage, the heart—all useless against the mage who can reach directly for the soul.
But *should* elves?

You never thought "rations" was an appropriate term for the feasts you prepare for your party.

"Careful now. Don't want to get the seeds stuck to your feelers like last time."




"After Lacjsi's speech, the Knights grew determined to crush their ancient enemies clan by clan."
—Tivadar of Thorn, *History of the Goblin Wars*
The fastest way across the dunes is above.
"The music is in the drum. I simply coax it out to be heard."


That which endures, survives.

"We thank the souleaters for surveilling our lives that we may be preserved from our own ignorance."
—Drones' hymn of gratitude
As Dosan's chant grew in volume, a second, deeper voice rose up in harmony behind it, strong enough to shake the earth and yet vibrant enough to fill the spirit.

Boggarts revel in discovering new sensations, from the texture of an otter pellet to the squeak of a dying warren mate.



Dwarves have been known to take pickaxes to their own creations, hoping to discover treasures within.
"Soramaro speaks through me. Listen! And I will tell the wisdom of the ancestors."
There's only one thing worse than a hungry lion—many hungry lions.

"Every act of destruction has a repercussion."
—Karn, silver golem
"I'd hate to see the bird that could get *this* wurm!"
—Alaborn soldier

"Mine is an insatiable god, with appetites as magnificent as the jungle itself."

Such is the power of Rakdos that even his shadow takes on a cruel life of its own.


So long as death follows life, the supply lines of the Sultai will never be cut.
"When are trees like grass?"
—*The One Thousand Questions*
Weakness is not in the nature of the Swarm.


"I feel your pain. It's exquisite."
Its wings beat to the howls of war and fan the fires of rage.



"Avacyn emerged from the broken Helvault, but her freedom came at a price—him."
—Thalia, Knight-Cathar
Boggarts divide the world into two categories: things you can eat, and things you have to chase down and pummel before you can eat.

"My flesh holds no secrets, monster. The spirit of Mirrodin will fight on."
—Vy Covalt, Mirran resistance
Those who cross the Dimir find enemies everywhere they turn.
"With no further options, I was forced to don the mask."
—Rashida Scalebane

Other guilds demand tolls from those who travel their territories, but not House Dimir. It takes its share secretly, one coin purse at a time.


The juiciest prey is that which grows lazy, thinking itself beyond the reach of danger.
"I am confined by sleep and defined by nightmare."
—Crovax
"We are a clachan of smiths. The forge is as comfortable to us as a small fire during a cool winter's evening."
The relationship between hunter and hunted knows nothing of alliances.
Bound to the square where she died, she calls out to those in danger—usually scaring them straight into the peril she warns of.

"At last! I have discovered a way to weaponize one of Tolaria's most abundant resources: horseshoe crabs."
"The Tangle reaches out to itself constantly, forming new connections. We must follow its example."

It took the Rimewind cultists days to realize they had successfully activated the creature—it just wasn't interested in moving.





"I looked into its eyes, and its soul was so empty I saw no reflection, no light there."
—Crovax

A few bands of kor sought refuge from the Eldrazi in Zendikar's vast cave networks, relying on their ability to survive in harsh vertical landscapes.

One glimpse of an elf's home lasts her weeks away in the wild.

His marvels of artifice pale in comparison to the developing machinery of his mind.
There were no tombstones in orochi territory. Slain warriors were buried with a tree sapling, so they would become a part of the forest after death.

The kami permit few mortals to dwell in Jukai Forest, but the clever, playful tanuki are welcomed as friends and guardians.

"You thought only the gods could stop you?"
It's a small step from revel to bloodbath.




"Wealth means power; the power to subdue, to crush, to exploit, the power to enslave, to outrage, to degrade."
—Emma Goldman, "Anarchism"
"One tiny peg pulled from a single wagon wheel, and an entire district grinds to a halt."
—Lazav


Some seers read bones or entrails. Others just like to break things.
"A stick is your friend. A pointed stick is your good friend. An army of pointed sticks is your best friend."
—Onean sergeant
Clouds and mists cover the lake as though it were a dreamland. When the wind rises, the mists disperse, opening great vistas of rippling reeds.

"The dead perform all the work here—farming, building, teaching, even embalming their fellow mummies. The living need do nothing but train. What system could be more perfect?"
—Temmet, vizier of Naktamun


"I fear anything with teeth measured in handspans!"
—Norin the Wary


As the Adversary's influence grew, the conflicts between families escalated.
Among the artisans of Sokenzan City, reusing every scrap of metal is a point of pride.


The intricate dynamics of Rundvelt Goblin affairs are often confused with anarchy. The chaos, however, is the chaos of a thundercloud, and direction will sporadically and violently appear. Pashalik Mons and his raiders are the thunderhead that leads in the storm.

"Before my people turned to false gods, we built a glittering city beneath the northern sea ice. The magic of ancient Benthidrix lives in me!"
"One score and four he reigned, the Southland king: / A dragon coiled, a tiger poised below the mighty Yangtze."

The Crave made Kneecleaver think she was bigger than the dragon.

With spear held high, the Champion came to meet Thyrogog of the Ashlands, who wore the old king's skin as a cloak and fed on the flesh of innocents. The foul minotaur raised the great axe called Goremaster and charged.
—*The Theriad*

"Sometimes I snare the unexpected, but I know its purpose will be revealed in time."

Fendros gasped as he watched the spell drip from the ends of his fingers. He moved his foot, afraid to disturb the spot where it lay slain.

"If your blood doesn't run hot, I will make it run in the sands!"
—Maraxus of Keld


"I can't bear to see another plane broken before I make my own home whole. I'm sorry, but my watch is over."






Urza exploited nature to power his war machines; in time, nature exploited his war machines to renew itself.

Silverstreak had lost her rider, but not her instinct to help humankind.

Descendant of a vanished land, student of a forgotten general, and master of blades no smith could forge anew. He honors them all by living a life worthy of song.

Created to destroy Dominia, Demons can sometimes be bent to a more focused purpose.
"They put bars on these noble beasts and then wonder why werewolves target our towns."
"Destiny, chance, fate, fortune—they're all just ways of claiming your successes without claiming your failures."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*

"You gotta be pretty smart to live long as me, but not being able to die helps."
"Fill the sky with stuff!"
The problem isn't the indrik's enthusiasm, it's Ravnica's lack of guardrails.
"Madness can't touch a mind ignited by genius."
"I wouldn't drink that if I were you."
—Dale Horvath
Even the lost and undead need a protector.
"Your superstitions and mumblings are useless chaff before my righteousness."
They certainly are.
No two see the same Maro.

"Her voice is justice, clear and relentless."
—Akroma, angelic avenger
"I know I should be more concerned. But a big, blue zombie-potamus from beyond the stars? This is what they're invading us with?"
—Mileva, Boros legionnaire
There is no loftier ambition than the pursuit of knowledge.



Lord Windgrace dedicated his life to restoring Urborg to its former glory.
On Innistrad, death is just a career change.
"We shun them not for their dream but for their refusal to let such a noble dream die a noble death."
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
Tedious research made the Sages of the College of Lat-Nam adept in repairing broken artifacts.

"My lord, there is only so much I can do. This plague infests Krov worse than any other city."
—Halvor Arensson, Kjeldoran Priest

"Her voice is justice, clear and relentless."
—Akroma, angelic avenger
Baby dragons can't figure out humans—if they didn't want to be killed, why were they made of meat and treasure?
"Then we burn together!"





Idealism fits him better than his armor.

He lurks in the undercity, eager for the corpse haulers to unload their rotting cargo.
"I could see in the other mage's eyes that he'd thought of it too. Then it became a race to exploit the knowledge first."
"This shield is a true rarity: an artifact whose purpose is obvious."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi machinist



"While we fought, the *il* surrendered."
—Oracle *en*-Vec



The Imperium's most peaceful worlds serve only to arm and supply the others.




Lightweight, flexible, and protective.




These days, trackers must follow their quarry over years as well as miles.



Equenauts are the seeds of the Conclave, scattered on the four winds, searching for new places to take root.





When the Planeswalker Angrath called dinosaurs "dragons," the name stuck in certain pirate circles.
There will always be those who presume to improve nature, or dare to befoul it. And nature will always have a response.
They bear weightier burdens than the shields they carry.

"We've bred out the shortcomings of the species' natural form and replaced them with assets of our own design."
—Momir Vig
"Who cares if the story's true as long as people are entertained?"
—Shin, Towashi street performer


"You learn a lot in no time when you're about to get your neck snapped."
—Dack Fayden




Its eye the glaring sun, its cry the keening wind.


It thrives on a steady diet of hastily disposed-of evidence.

Remarkably, dinner continued with no further interruptions.
"Each year that passes rings you inwardly with memory and might. Wield your heart, and the world will tremble."



"The Cloud Nacatl sit and think, a bunch of soft paws. We are the Claws of Marisi, stalking, pouncing, drawing blood."

"If it has ears, it will dance to my tune."

Tracing their ancestry back to Zendikar's earliest forms of life, lagac lizards have seen the comings and goings of planeswalkers and the Eldrazi, and the rise of the vampire clans, none of which has changed them one bit.

Never a word. Never a warning. Only the sound of hoofbeats along the crossways, and the screams of the avenged.

Fire burns away both flesh and freedom.

Hobs bury their kin far from home. They believe the dry, open ground keeps hags from stealing the bones and gwyllions from stealing the spirits.

"Where metal is tainted and wood is scarce, we are best armed by faith."
—Tavalus, acolyte of Korlis

Golgari crops bloom in strange soils, touched only by long-traveled light.
He raged at the world, at his family, at his life. But mostly he just raged.
The residents of Embraal were never known for finesse, just for getting things done.



"Just relax—I brought in a substitute."

Entry 434: There's more to Avacyn's madness . . .



Once he'd worked out which end of the thing the paint came from, he was promoted to shirt duty.
After the Battle of Liet Field, the white sun crested above Taj-Nar, bringing hope to all who survived the carnage.
Art is unknown to the vedalken—for them, all creations must serve a purpose.
"I wish I could rewrite my every deed and kill you with my first breath instead of my last."

"Why do you weep for the dead? I rejoice, for they have died for me."
"Their origins are shrouded in mystery. I believe they are the protectors of the lost secrets of our world."
—Jilaya, Temur whisperer






It haunts the remnants of the Helix of Zof, leeching strength from the vast Eldrazi ruin.


Under the master's eye, skills are honed sharper and spells cut deeper.

「ファイレクシアは虚空から生まれた。 機械の父、偉大なるヨーグモスはその完成された形を予見なされた。 かくして『偉大なる進化』が始まった。」
———ファイレクシア経典
"What cage would you rather be inside of than out?"
—Daru riddle
Never content, vedalken artificers continually tinker with their creations.



"It was a strange morning. When we awoke, we found our trees transformed. We didn't know whether to water them or polish them."
—Pulan, Bant orchardist
"Those who have passed are beyond war, beyond suffering. Mourn them, envy them, but above all, remember them."
—Light-Paws, Imperial advisor
There is always a greater power.

"Write everything down. Trust me."
—Vallon, Thraben inspector



"Falconry? A fine sport I suppose, if you're attracted to the frailty of birds."
—Trivaz, Izzet mage
For the Phyrexians, death is not an end, nor a one-time occurrence.


Every horizon hides a new possibility.
She reaches beyond the physical realm, touching the ideals from which all creatures draw their power.
A shadow to swallow the light.
"They're beasts! What are they going to do, bomb us from orbit?"
—Platoon Commander Cyrus Jalili, Prandium Defense Auxilia

"Manners are for mortals."
Its beak rends flesh and bone, exposing the tender marrow of dream.
"Everyone in this city is choosing sides. I choose inside."
As insubstantial, and as powerful, as the wind that carries it.
"The Golgari believe they should be given what they deserve. On this we agree."
—Tajic
"Life grows everywhere. My kin merely find those places where it grows strongest."
—Nissa Revane




Jund feasts on the unprepared.
"We can fight with you or against you. After my day, I'd prefer the former."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*
He collects the precious metals, and then converts the rest to propellant.


Rakdos cultists hanged her for sport in the township square. Her ghost now stands vigil at what has become known as the Tree of Weeping.
The Sun Empire's most sacred sites are protected by more than prayers.


The elves and merfolk have nothing but bitterness for each other. The trolls, however, find them both rather tasty.
"They can't feel pain. They just wiggle 'cause they're scared."

"Those who wish to become evincar must first cast off the shackles of compassion."

Nightscape masters don't stop at raising the spirit of a fallen battlemage. They raise the flesh along with it.

"Ribbit."

True love means always knowing what's on the other's mind.

"Reflect upon your evils lest they reflect upon you."
—Inquisitor Laerin

"...There was no trace/ Of aught on that illumined face..."
—Samuel Coleridge, "Phantom"
"Rarely have power and madness been so delightfully wed as they have in our dear grandmother."
—Baron Sengir
"First through the Riftstone was Genesis—and the world was lifeless no more."
—*Scroll of Beginnings*
"Eldrazi? Ha! Try walking through Zulaport at night with your pockets full. Now *that's* dangerous."

Desmera blinded her seers so that her beauty would be the last image burned in their memories. The act only deepened their insight.
Lord Jannath sent you to secure the mine from gnoll raiders, but so far you haven't seen any gnolls . . . or, for that matter, any miners.
|su,porkFst,GEyts,LecchuZFFGKMEDEauDut. |be,Gyyts,pFnenBePe,Qe,fyrshuZFGKDugSeDZnepyt.




"It hurts more if you think about it."
—Hooks, Cabal torturer


"The merchant asked for riches no one had ever dreamed of. The djinn, smiling, granted his wish."
—Afari, *Tales*
"This soil knows well the taste of the dead. Give it the hunger for a living meal, and it can become a deadly ally."
—Ezrith, druid of the Dark Hours
Those who displease Oona soon learn the extent of the armies she commands.


Though they are held in high regard as symbols of the god Oketra, cats often lack her sense of solidarity.
The Eternal armies advanced on Vitu-Ghazi. At Nissa's command, Vitu-Ghazi advanced on them.

"How did you get your hands on that? Wait, never mind. I don't want to know."
—Plargg, Lorehold dean
"We are all decaying, always in a state of near-death. One moment without breath and we begin to break down."
—Cevraya, Golgari shaman




"Jarad fancies himself king of the undercity, but he's merely king of rot."
"The unfathomable is upon us, students. I have no doubt you will rise to the occasion."
"The realization that one is dying is far more terrifying than death itself."
—Sidisi, Silumgar vizier



The last hedron slotted into place, locking Ulamog in an infinite loop of binding energy.
Scents fade and footprints wash away, but some trails can never be erased.
"I will reach infinity."
"From the ashes of Reito rose a new kami. And thereafter at every battle came Horobi, Death's Wail."
—*The History of Kamigawa*



"Fishtails infest the water, and mists walk the land. Give me simple solid rock any day."
—Tahngarth of the *Weatherlight*
A whisper of authority rises over a cacophony of grinding machines.
"You can tell me what I want to know, or you can talk to the Chief of Compliance. Why don't you make it easy on yourself?"

"The longer the journey, the more one learns."
—Isanke, Halimar seastalker



"Is it purebred? No, but it's pure fire."
—Chandra Nalaar
Once a griffin sentinel adopts a territory as its own, only death can force it to betray its post.



Each monitor is given an eye for each spire it is to guard.





The viashino used the spell to dry foods for crossing the Great Desert. The Suq'Ata later discovered its use in war.
"To care for yourself, cultivate the world. To care for the world, cultivate yourself."
"Early in his reign, Konda fell ill. His head burned with fever, and he saw visions of his future. In them, he saw a spirit-child, and, in that child's eyes, a way to make his empire last forever."
—*The History of Kamigawa*



In a shaman's grimy hands, a concoction of dried Skirk Ridge herbs can become the face of panic.
Many a keen-eared bogle has run afoul of a clever and silently orchestrated kithkin ambush.




"I can no longer stand by as these Skirsdag infiltrators rot the church from within. Even the Lunarch Council is compromised. What a fool I've been."
—Odric
"Oh mighty Griselbrand, Scourge of the Heedless World, gladly I consume myself for thee!"

"How is it the legged engines seem so much more alive than their wheeled counterparts? Simply, they were born, not made."
—Mishra

Its scars cut deeper than its blade.
"Little goblin. Big noise."
—Ruric Thar

Murky Otarian tides hide the forgotten treacheries of the Phyrexian war.

"The scouts claim the cold has malice, and a mind. I begin to believe them. Impassable drifts seem to appear before us at every turn."
—Aevar Borg, northern guide, journal entry
"I have been trapped in the lizard's lair for days. It seems to regard me as its child and will not let me leave."
—Aevar Borg, northern guide, journal entry

The view is truly spectacular—as long as you don't look at Rishada itself.




"Opportunity isn't something you wait for. It's something you create."
Not every cage is made of bars.



"It was a pleasure to meet me."
—Captain Rex Nebula
The massive dominate through might. The tiny survive with guile. Beware the tiny who become massive.
He has "friends" in places both high and low, and all seem to owe him favors.



While captain of the *Weatherlight*, Sisay undertook a quest for the Legacy, a collection of artifacts needed to defeat the Lord of the Wastes. She continued this quest even when Gerrard, heir to the Legacy, chose to abandon it. Sisay is devoted to the cause of good at whatever price.

"Crisp, flavorful, and energizing. Perhaps the most elegant offering of Halo in Park Heights. Five stars."
—Conzuelo, restaurant critic
Foolishly, Najib retreated to his castle at El-Abar; the next morning he was dead. In just one night, the dwarven forces had reduced the mighty walls to mere rubble.
"Gaea sings with the voice of nature rampant: a thousand howls, chitters, and cries, and none of them can be ignored."





Empires rise and fall, but evil is eternal.
When asked how much power is required, Izzet mages always answer "more."


Drakes claim to be dragons—until the dragons show up.
"This close to Rimewind Keep, no avalanche is nature's doing."
—Ukoten, centaur chieftain
Infinite wisdom cannot be contained within a single mind.



"A river of lava is just another river to cross."
Verick held his breath. Breathing wouldn't reveal his position, but it would force him to smell the goblins.


The new model has improved aerodynamics but introduced a few glitches in the targeting system.

The passionate intensity of the Ghitu tempered by the cool insight of Tolarian training.
We had taken refuge in a small cave, thinking the entrance was too narrow for it to follow. To our horror, its gigantic head smashed into the mountainside, ripping itself a new entrance.
"The wolves of our valley are bred to detest the scent of ghouls. For centuries they have kept our estates clear of such carrion."
—Olivia Voldaren




She now hears only Emrakul's murmurs.
Not every church is a place of faith.

"This place suits me: craven authorities and plentiful prey."

"With Rashida's blades, my guiding vision and the luck of the blessed, today we will free Mangara!"
—Asmira, Holy Avenger

"From shards and splinters I call forth my living horde."
—Molimo, maro-sorcerer

The mating habits of Treefolk, particularly the stalwart Ironroot Treefolk, are truly absurd. Molasses comes to mind. It's amazing the species can survive at all given such protracted periods of mate selection, conjugation, and gestation.

"Grab what you want and burn the rest. Leave nothing behind."



Torn from history. Torn from memory. Torn from reality.

They rarely question their orders. Of course, they rarely understand them.
"His laugh, a bellowing, deathly din, slices through the heavens, making them bleed."
—*The Seer's Parables*
Treacherous and unpredictable currents around Tolaria earned the nickname "serpent wakes."

"Mercy? Mercy is for the playground, not the battleground."
When she's hungry, no one is safe.
From her sunsail tent high above the forest floor, an elf harkener can hear the footfalls of a single creature through the cacophony of Naya's jungle sounds.
If only every message were as perfect as its messenger.
Expeditions follow the paths it leaves in its wake.







Rain runoff in the Smelting District is known to spontaneously burst into flame.


Elves of the immaculate class weave flora into living creatures—sometimes to endorse an elite warrior, sometimes to create a breathing work of art.
When the Mirran resistance arrived, the furnace dwellers looked to Urabrask for guidance. His decree stunned the others: "Let them be."





"Aether is the soul of Kaladesh, and all souls should be free."

Your sentence can't be longer than this one.

The Kor forsake roots for the winding of the path; forsake voices for the silence of the mind; forsake all else for the poverty of isolation.
"When you're a goblin, you don't have to step forward to be a hero—everyone else just has to step back!"
—Biggum Flodrot, goblin veteran

"Each night we felt it watching us from the darkness beyond our fire. We only had one pack horse left."
—Maeveen O'Donagh, *Memoirs of a Soldier*
Plucking the chicken
—Elvish expression meaning "flinging the monkey"
It stops flying only as its life comes to an end.
"Our friends of the forest take many forms, yet all serve the will of Freyalise."
—Laina of the Elvish Council

"Your death will be a balm, your passing a welcome revision, and all will sigh with peace to know of your demise."

Doing something at the last minute isn't so bad when you can make that minute last.
Nicol Bolas doesn't distinguish between servants and victims.



"In times of need, the forest creates its own protectors."
—Vivien Reid








"This is the fun part!"
—Ib Halfheart, Goblin Tactician
"You'll lose a duel if your enemy comes expecting a war."
"Werewolves are an unholy mix of a predator's instinct and a human's hatred."
—Alena, trapper of Kessig
"You'd be amazed how much a single plant has to teach you."
—Lisette, Witherbloom dean




"Brave scar or unfortunate tale? It all depends on your pain threshold."

"What's behind my mask? My face, idiot."


"That giant didn't even see me, let alone catch me! And I was close enough to smell him! Of course, that's not saying much."


The scrollkeepers never stepped an inch away from the doors of the Great Library, not even when the ogres and their oni masters swept through Minamo.



Measure its determination by the screams of its prey.

Dressed to kill.

"Madness can't touch a mind ignited by genius."


The past still lives within its pages, waiting for its time to come again.

First, whispers of ancient days. Then, visions of things to come.

"Prayers will curdle on the tongue and be heard by rotting ears."
—Minaldra, the Vizag Atum
"The greatest honor is to feed Atarka."
As Jhoira restored the *Weatherlight*, a mushroom growing in its hold unexpectedly became her first crew member.
"Should you a Rat to madness tease
Why ev'n a Rat may plague you..."
—Samuel Coleridge, "Recantation"
The spirits of all the rivers and oceans came together as an unstoppable force, unleashing their fury as lightning and thunder.


The chasm of years and worlds collapsed under the power of their embrace.
Mystery lies beneath the haunting mists. Never stay where obscurity deepens.

. . . aaaaaaiiii . . .


Unpredictable as the sea itself, Water Elementals shift without warning from tranquility to tempest. Capricious and fickle, they flow restlessly from one shape to another, expressing their moods with their physical forms.

Broad prairies feed the human sanctuary of Drannith and conceal a network of caverns where giant cats make their dens.

When the rhoxes charge, everyone else knows which way to run.


Planeswalkers conjured replicas of old allies, reminders of the homeworlds that would fall next if Bolas prevailed.
Many scholars believe that these creatures were the result of Urza's first attempt at mechanical life, perhaps created in his early days as an apprentice to Tocasia.
Age wears the flesh but galvanizes the soul.
The crowd laughed heartily at the fool's performance, until his hat laughed back.


First the insult, then the injury.


If you feel the ground quake, run. If you hear its bellow, flee. If you see its teeth, it's too late.



"Wherever the strong would harm the weak, I will be there."
—Ajani Goldmane


"I do as I please, little mortal. Do go on about your wishes, though—they amuse me to no end."
While it's true most Dragons are cruel, the Shivan Dragon seems to take particular glee in the misery of others, often tormenting its victims much like a cat plays with a mouse before delivering the final blow.

Weakness is not in the nature of the Swarm.

Something roams the killing places, sniffing the guilt of the slayers, stalking them on iron paws.
"To see past the veil of death, cross it."
—*The Red Book of Mezdrithalik*
One thread connected all the travelers' stories: the ferocity of the mongoose.
Healers ultimately acquire the divine gifts of spiritual and physical wholeness. The most devout are also granted the ability to pass physical wholeness on to others.

Inventors have been known to capture gremlins with the intent to release them in a rival's workshop. More often than not, that plan backfires.


"Friends, foragers, fuzzy fighters! Tonight we're after more than just acorns!"
—Larrel, Deep Forest hermit
"What is a scar? A sign of courage in the face of danger? A mere trick of flesh? Or a constant reminder of agonizing pain, and the follies of war."
—Illulia of Nighthearth
"Aselbo soon had the rhino eating from his palm and the snake waiting at his heels."
—Afari, *Tales*

Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.
Cast out of Garenbrig for his crimes, Ennor turned to fae magic to fashion the perfect weapon for his revenge.

Exhausting a wizard can be exhausting work.
Designed for maximum impact, comedic and otherwise.
He combs the streets looking for the lost light, the discarded enigmas of the city.
"We will grow an army large enough to withstand the Izzet's madness."
—Trostani


It shreds its prey as each head fights for the choicest bits.




"Life cannot be created and then abandoned. It must be nurtured and fed so that it may express its ripened might."
—Freyalise

"There was a crack of branches, a rustle of leaves, then a tremendous roar. Our party had no chance as death descended from above."
—Taseen, elvish bard


One quiet word sets off the stampede.

Fire is never a gentle master.
"I'd stand back if I were you."

"A little dark magic won't stop me. The worse the curse, the better the prize."
—Radavi, Joraga relic hunter, last words
"Seeing the river is not the same as seeing the fish."


"For so long, this land cried out in pain. Now, as the flow returns to its balance point, a new harmony echoes in the trees."
"About, about in reel and rout The death-fires danced at night; The water, like a witch's oils, Burnt green, and blue and white." —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
Freyalise strengthens her faithful.
Everyone who could still lift a weapon had a part in retaking Sea Gate.






Its collapse is like the lashing out of a long-dead civilization that resents being forgotten.
Better the cold night than her warm hospitality.

"An indrik's howl has destructive power much subtler than that of its crushing foot. The sound is mundane, but inaudible vibrations scatter and sunder magical contrivances."
—Simic research notes
When outsiders interrupted the matca championship, things got ugly.

"The soratami scoff at the perils of Jukai, calling the forest an 'unruly garden.' Perhaps we should send them a rose such as this."
—Dokai, Weaver of Life



While hunting aether, a gremlin may ignore other stimuli, including threats to its own life.
For every eye, an eye. For every tooth, a tooth. Griffins are nothing if not fair.
The aberrant magic of the Rimewind drew the unicorns back from the northern wastes to do battle once again.

"Why keep such trinkets? They only add weight to your travels."

"Your own frailty is your undoing. I am merely the one to expose it."
"Each night, the sun unravels and blows away. Each day, the spiders set a new one in the sky."
—Sunseeder myth
The Simic use the claws as scalpels, while the Rakdos use them for tattooing and torture. The Gruul use them to pick their teeth after lunching on the rest of the carcass.





"Tools and artisans can be destroyed, but the act of creation is inviolate."
—Elspeth Tirel
"We could learn a lot by watching the little ones," said Agnate. "Define 'little,'" replied Grizzlegom.
When one leonin hunts, many more are surely nearby.
"If it ain't broke, I'll break it. If it *is* broke, I'll fix it."
"They store energy in special gastric organs ... but I guess you'd probably rather have me clear the path than ramble about guts."
—Fahar, expedition wizard

Every hour, at the turning of the glass, its owner had whispered to the locket, seeding it with secrets. This would be her legacy, her memory, if the rifts should take her.

The king went off to find himself. Imagine his terror when he succeeded.








The legacy of Feroz lives on.
Some fight for honor and some for gold, but the militia fight for hearth and home.
Fragile, floating Skysail suddenly seemed like an appealingly safe place to live.
"Once we prayed to the kaijin for safe voyage. Now we only pray that we can escape their gaze."
—Hayato, master sailor
The shield of unimpeachable purity is as strong as any wrought on the anvil.



Ral Zarek's brainstorms bring actual thunder and lightning.

"The predator knows the true way of the world. Life is conflict. Only the strong survive."
@-Garruk Wildspeaker


"We know our place in the cycle of life—and it is not as flies."
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
"How can anyone fight so much yet enjoy it so little?"
—The Western Paladin

Self-reflection is not without its perils.




"Close the walls! Retract the docks! The homarids are coming!"
—Benson, Argivian sentry
Every world is an organism, able to grow new lands. Some just do it faster than others.






"I've heard enough."
His name is spoken only in whispers—but he hears just the same.
"The heroes of the past nourish our spirits by their example—and nourish our crops by their decay."
—Jeddeg, philosopher of graves



More, more, more!

Her mind was quite gone, yet she spoke nothing but truth.




"I've been all over this world. I even remember some of those places."

Five hundred years to grow—barely a minute to eat.
No one is so lost that a faerie can't find them.
"I don't understand why he works so hard on a device to duplicate a sound so easily made with hand and armpit."
—Barrin, progress report

While it possesses potent venom, the Giant Spider often chooses not to paralyze its victims. Perhaps the creature enjoys the gentle rocking motion caused by its captives' struggles to escape its web.

"Is this the grave of a god? A tunnel carved by the Cosmos Serpent? It matters not. It is no place for us."
—Iskene, Kannah storyteller

The blades of a Sultai assassin stab like the fangs of a dragon.

In the autumn, she casts her seeds across the streets below, and come spring, her children rise in service to the Conclave.


She doesn't escort the dead to the afterlife, but instead raises them to fight and die again.
Trained in the arts of stealth, the Royal Assassins choose their victims carefully, relying on timing and precision rather than brute force.
Frost giants study for centuries in isolation, honing their ability to harness elemental mayhem.
"Get the sylex to Urza at any cost. Tell him to fill it with memories of the land."
—Ashnod, to Tawnos
"The symbols—when did they change?"
—Tamiyo's journal





"I serve only justice. But through that duty, I serve all of Ravnica."



Never ask a pyromancer if that's the best she's got.
Paradoxically, to tilt the massive jug for a sip, you'd need the energy of the giant's tonic.


Phyrexia had tried to take Urza's soul. He was relieved that Shiv tried to claim only his soles.
It has the run of the swamps, and it knows it.
"I would advise you not to struggle."
—Huatli
Amid the gibbering chorus that rose from the drownyard temple, Jace recognized a single word: "Emrakul."
"Did you have a nice nap?"
—Liliana Vess
"I want to help Zendikar. Show me the way."
@-Nissa Revane
"We're going to need a bigger gate."
—Bowen, Barrenton guardcaptain

"It appears that nature has risen against us."
—Captain Brinely Rage

"Someday, when the world is safe again, my homeland will return."
—Teferi
"I am the simplifier, the root that drags all artifice to earth."
—Seal inscription
Slow and heavy swings the club.

Freyalise forbid that any stranger should wander into the striders' territory.






"We are the motes of rain that join to make the thundercloud. The power of the storm god surges through us!"


"No, not 'washed' ashore. It *walked* ashore."
—Shafring Hulm, beachcomber
"Touched by moroii"
—Undercity slang meaning "to grow old"
The earth walks, strongest of all.
"I do not ask you to be tame. I only ask you to be true."
—Rishkar, Peema renegade

"Study the great spirits of our age and those of the past. Prune secrets from the branching traceries of our lineage."
—Twila, Gilt-Leaf archdruid

A power vacuum for the Azorius. A keepsake for Vraska.
"I will protect the less fortunate. I will love bravely. I will face despair and fight on. As a Capashen, I can do no less."


In Gavony, headstones come only from quarries that have been blessed by chaplains.
"I followed her song only to find it was a dirge."
—Crovax

"The temple has been rededicated. It belongs to Mogis now."
—Rastos, disciple of Mogis
"Now that I've dealt with your little toys, I can focus on the real problem: you."
—Chandra Nalaar, to Dovin Baan

Their skills are extensive, and their appetite for battle just as vast.
"And the ignorant shall fall to the squirrels."
—*Chip 2:54*


The longer it soars above the shimmering swirls of the Quicksilver Sea, the more it adopts their unpredictability.

At first, vedalken observers thought blinkmoths naturally avoided certain places. Then they realized those places were frogmite feeding grounds.

Tangling vines, fetid murk, paralyzing poisons, and crawling dead. The swamp is nature's trap waiting to be exploited by unnatural minds.
A mastodon's path always leads to an oasis.


"'Do you know, I always thought Unicorns were fabulous monsters, too? I never saw one alive before!' 'Well, now that we *have* seen each other,' said the Unicorn, 'if you'll believe in me, I'll believe in you.'"
—Lewis Carroll

"Don't be fooled. If it were as docile as it looks, it would've died off long ago."
—Yon Basrel, Oran-Rief survivalist
While exploring the sacred cave of Koilos with his brother Mishra and their master Tocasia, Urza fell behind in the Hall of Tagsin, where he discovered the remarkable Mightstone.

"If you manage to get to the heart of the bog, you'll find things there that make zombies seem downright lovable."
—Byaras, backwoods guide
One pounce, she's hungry—you die quickly. Two, she's teaching her cubs—you're in for a long day.
". . . [A]nd gives to airy nothing A local habitation and a name."
—William Shakespeare,
*A Midsummer-Night's Dream*
He ensures not only whether but also when and where the lightning strikes twice.

Where do you run when the earth becomes your enemy?
"Any dream is a robust harvest. Still, I prefer the timeworn dreams, heavy with import, that haunt the obsessive mind."

"No doubt the arbiters would put you away, after all the documents are signed. But I will have justice now."
—Alovnek, Boros guildmage
The Saprazzans excel at both tactics: hit *and* run.

"Perhaps its distant ancestors were radiant felidars, but no hint of their nobility remains."
—Akiri, kor line-slinger



The sky takes flight and the earth trembles.


"In some cultures, elephants are ridden by those in power. I don't think a mere elephant would even be noticed in Keld."
—Onean sergeant

"Hear our prayers, oh Shadowed One, and bless us in bloody agony."

"What else, when chaos draws all forces inward to shape a single leaf." —Conrad Aiken

"I do not remember what he said to her. I remember her fiery eyes, fixed upon him for an instant. I remember a flash, and the hot breath of sudden flames made me turn away. When I looked again, Angus was gone." —A Wayfarer, on meeting Lady Orca







Its assistance is unnervingly similar to its hunting technique.
Mount Sulano erupted not in magma but in anger.
In the quiet before a battle, Boros soldiers whisper prayers that steady their nerves and focus their minds.


Agreements with demons seldom end at the grave.




In colder climates, ice is more obedient than stone.
"The Cabal and the Order really aren't that different. After all, we are both empowered by faith."
Marhault Elsdragon follows a strict philosophy, never letting emotions cloud his thoughts. No chance observer could imagine the rage in his heart.
"Life is a game. The only thing that matters is whether you're a pawn or a player."
The necropolis at Unx was once a living city, its streets untrodden by death.

Moving without sound, swift figures pass through branches and undergrowth completely unhindered. One with the trees around them, the Dryads of Shanodin Forest are seen only when they wish to be.

It harmonizes with the essence of its master.

The people of the Sun Empire worship the sun in three aspects. Tilonalli is the Burning Sun, associated with ferocity, fire, and passion.
An ever-moving swarm of dust engulfs and disorients anything that comes near.
The Tolarians had the maps, but only the Yavimayans knew how to read them.
"I need a better hiding place."

"Why would I kill you all? Who then would be left to worship me?"

"I've never understood why so many beings lumber around on the ground. There are three dimensions, yet they use only two."

To the sorrow of all, its rage became focused on those who once stoked it.
The Phyrexian death machine awoke, its coldsteel heart imbuing it with sinister new power.


The only thing that smells worse than troll is burnt troll.
"Bant's most gallant knights wear my sigil, and for that I am humbled."
"His tenement is filled with the most vile, disgusting vermin. It's infested with rats, too."
—Branko One-Ear

"There will come a time when the voices of soil and seedling will sing only laments."
—Oracle *en*-Vec



Earth Elementals have the eternal strength of stone and the endurance of mountains. Primordially connected to the land they inhabit, they take a long-term view of things, scorning the impetuous haste of short-lived mortal creatures.
The capo of caps, the hitman of hats, the don of donning fashionable headwear.


A true shortcut isn't a way other people don't know; it's a way other people can't go.
"Do not call the Balduvians barbaric. Their magic is as potent as it is primal."
—Zur the Enchanter


When one leonin hunts, many more are surely nearby.




"That does it—I quit!"
—Cabal grave robber
The realms protected by druids of the Circle of Dreams are gleaming, fruitful places, where dream and reality blur together and the weary can find rest.
"No emergency is so dire that it cannot be dealt with elegantly."
—Olivia Voldaren
"Don't wander far—it's a bit nippy out there!"
—Leidurr, expedition leader
Mercy is for those who keep their distance.
After centuries of labor, its creations outnumber those they were to mimic.

"Nothin' beat surprise—'cept rock."



Fey energy clings to you, a shimmering reminder of your otherworldly travels.
Nylea appeared amid the howl of a hundred beasts.
His verdict is always guilty. His sentence is always death.
Even the landscape turned against Sarsour, first rising up and pelting him, then rearranging itself so he could no longer find his way.



"'I have arrived,' bellowed Brawn, and the plane shuddered."
—*Scroll of Beginnings*
The progeny of the Maelstrom shows no allegiance—and no mercy—to any of the five shards.
"The bonders work with creatures that fly, slink, and burrow. Assume they know everything."
—Jirina Kudro
. . . nnnnnssssss!
They soar, and the mystics follow.
"Illusion is a handy but fragile medium. Use it only in a pinch, or against the dim-witted."
—Jace Beleren
"So like men are they: a hardened shell with fragile flesh beneath."
—Selenia, dark angel
They fletch their arrows with the feathers of angels.
"We're done here."

As the irrepressible power of a dormant Multani courses through Yavimaya, the forest passes judgment on travelers and natives alike. Only the fungus prospers.

"It was probably a lousy spell in the first place."
—Ertai, wizard adept




"Though their ideals are leagues apart, Urza's and Mishra's creations have a surprising harmony with one another."
—Tocasia, journal entry
Bant's hearts are as pure as its air and as bright as its skies.


Too obviously xenos in form to blend into human society, the acolytes haunt the dark places beneath industrial sprawls.
"'I'm certain that the fate of Markov Manor is connected to these cryptoliths . . .' This Tamiyo was on to something."
"You've got your childhood wish at last. Now you get to die."
—Gerrard, to Volrath

Each of these intricate mechanical petals stores enough power to supply all of Ghirapur, if only for a fleeting moment.

He speaks directly into his supplicants' minds using fiery words that inflame their thoughts and incite their passions.
The goblin idea of music is to hit something with a stick.
"Nature adapts. So should we."
Rakshasa trade in secrets, amassing wealth from their careful revelation.
"Let nothing take away from the purity of swords clashing or of arrows taking flight toward the breast of evil."



Winter settles on the land, and the land prays it will wake.



Just one can feed a dozen people for a month.




They hardly have form, dripping through pipe and grate with the slip and stench of flowing sewage.

As graceful as a deer leaping a stream and as deadly as the wolf waiting in ambush on the other side, elvish warriors are the eyes of the forest as well as its unsheathed claws.

"Surely you know the joy of the hunt, my furry friend. My kind of hunt just takes a different form than yours."
"Ideas don't have to be big to be great."

Crippling fear precedes it. A foul stench accompanies it. Death follows in its wake.
"When the Light of Starnheim shines here, every frost-edged needle glitters with the reflected glory of the Cosmos."
—Iskene, Kannah storyteller
"As flies to wanton boys, are we to the gods. They kill us for their sport."
—William Shakespeare, *King Lear*
We had taken refuge in a small cave, thinking the entrance was too narrow for it to follow. To our horror, its gigantic head smashed into the mountainside, ripping itself a new entrance.

The border between life and death is as thin as a layer of topsoil.
A ray of hope breaks through the shroud of rain.
"Apply orange leaf to a wound at dawn to clean it, at dusk to prevent the same injury from happening again."
—Kithkin superstition
Saprazzan merfolk become legged on land, but some find it quicker to bring the water with them.



"Our noblest thoughts are our very first and our very last."

The clouds grew thick, and then they grew teeth.

Swirling eddies of ash hide crumbling cliffs, treacherous drops, and the slavering maws of unknown evils.

"Though Serra has not been seen for twenty years, her Gargoyles still watch over our city and punish the guilty."
—Gulsen, Abbey Matron
"Forswear the flesh and you will truly see."
—Jin-Gitaxias, Core Augur




"Begone, moon-cursed! These folk are no prey of yours."
No matter how deep you bury it, some evil refuses to stay dead.

Bones scattered around us joined to form misshapen bodies. We struck at them repeatedly—they fell, but soon formed again, with the same mocking look on their faceless skulls.

"'Rat-infested' sounds so negative. I prefer 'rat-friendly.'"
Goblins' fearlessness and diminutive size make them the perfect cannoneers.
A lawmage's runic script is an act of governance given form: legislation written directly onto the air itself.
"One day, or another, perhaps I shall ring my pretty chime . . . loudly, so that all may hear."
—Grandmother Sengir



I knew he had left the castle now, and thought to use the opportunity to explore more than I had dared to do as yet.
Embermages aren't well known for their diplomatic skills.









"I don't know where my destiny lies, but I know it isn't here."
"Only those who give the dragons the respect they deserve may bear our title."


"In my early experiments in phylactery, I found that fragile forms have their uses."
—Rocati, Duke of Martyne
Likes: augmentation, fluffy animals, creative templating.
In mentoring apprentice mages, the forest spirit Multani teaches each to respect nature while making use of its gifts. Multani taught Gerrard, Mirri, and Rofellos to hone their spellcasting in tandem with more physical disciplines so that both would be improved.

She knows your next move before you do.
If an elf can dream it, a dwarf can build it, and a gremlin can eat it.

Even the most conservative generals revised their tactics after the Battle of Sarinth, during which a handful of peasant-pikemen held off a trio of rampaging Craw Wurms.

"I prefer the big and looming to the small and skittering."
—Cevraya, Golgari shaman


"To comprehend the full answer requires years of temporal study. In short, they were now never born in the first place."
—Teferi
Nephalia's tides obey an unforgiving moon.
"Heart of Sokenzan, I call to you! Lend me your fire."


Cephalids value the free exchange of ideas—except for the "free" part.
"Even the ancient storytellers proclaimed Zhalfir to be dominant over all Jamuraa. Kaervek's invasion shocked us all."
—Hakim, Loreweaver

It doesn't point north. It points home.

Nature's secrets can be read on every tree, every branch, every leaf.
Frorn didn't want to be kept, but he didn't want to be thrown back either.
"To victory! To glory! To eternity!"
"Our enemies have breached our realm. To survive, the clans must fight as one!"



"Let the vampires join us. In this war, we no longer have the luxury of choosing our comrades."
—General Tazri, allied commander



"The sea holds all that you need. You simply must know how to ask for it."


The vedalken know it is not of this world, so they know that this world is not the only one.
Reminders of Memnarch's reign still skirr across Mirrodin, reminiscent of his form if not his power.




"Guess where I'm gonna plant this!"
Widow Weber's new scarecrow seemed to attract more crows than it scared off.
"That's the third time this month it's exploded on site. Maybe we should switch to something a little less defective."
—Kerrin, archaeologist
"All I require is faith, loyalty, obedience, trust, and complete and utter devotion."
The god of destiny grants her followers vision deeper than sight.


Her words inspire action. Her actions inspire victory.







Barrin's pride in his apprentice was diminished somewhat when he had to get the others back down.

From trinket to trauma.


"May the steel of your blade match the steel in your soul."
"We in the Conclave have a saying: 'When you hold a shield, lend your shield.' The strong must never forget what they owe to the weak."
— Niszka, Selesnya evangel



"Begone, moon-cursed! These folk are no prey of yours."
Goblins journey to the sacrificial peaks in pairs so that the rare survivor might be able to relate the details of the other's grisly demise.
"Stop locking your knees as you strike! Now stand up and try again."

The midway's games aren't so much rigged as they are insulated and grounded.
The dying ask for water because they know it contains life.


"The alliances were already frayed. All we do is find the loose threads and pluck."
—Lazav

"An angel appeared in the smoldering skies above the fray, her clothes as flames, her armor as fire."
—"Hymn of Angelfire"

Doyo suspected the boggarts of brewing a plot against his crop, so he scythed away his grain to clear the sightlines.

As the world steeled itself for the New Phyrexian invasion, the heart of the Pinelands awoke, and a new maro-sorcerer strode forth to join the fight.
The Thran learned to capture mana, but power inevitably escapes its bonds.

When it escaped, the experimenters hesitated. It would cause untold havoc, yet they wished to see it in action.
Sometimes it's best to let sleeping dragons lie.
For Sarkhan Vol, the dragon is the purest expression of life's savage splendor.
"We've bred out the shortcomings of the species' natural form and replaced them with assets of our own design."
—Momir Vig

"It's right to fear those that you keep locked away."
—Rahilda, Vildin-Pack alpha
"The horror! The horror!"
—Joseph Conrad, *Heart of Darkness*
The only way to finish the Trial of Strength is with a basilisk scale in hand.
Terrible fury. Excellent aim.

Sacred rites repurposed to fight an ancient threat.


The insectile kraul lurk in the tunnels below street level. Many are loyal to the Golgari Swarm, but others follow their own esoteric caste system.
Remade by Eldrazi magic, Tuktuk inspired an entire clan of misguided goblins.

Called "stonefeathers" by many lowlanders, rukhs are thought to descend from a phoenix that sacrificed its flame for a body of stone.

"My faith is stronger than fang, claw, or mindless hunger."

He holds the keys to a tombful of incarcerated secrets.
She reaches beyond the physical realm, touching the ideals from which all creatures draw their power.
"I will trust desert steel in Fallaji hands over a soulless machine any day."
—Hajar, Mishra's bodyguard
"We have fought this far and lost too much. We will not turn back."
—Grizzlegom
"I noticed you were short on party favors, so I brought my own."
—Higa, slayer-captain of Gatstaf



"Only a chump stops after one unlucky loss. You're not a chump, are you?"


I tell you, there was so many arrows flying about you couldn't hardly see the sun. So I says to young Angus, "Well, at least now we're fighting in the shade!"
"It's my fault, really. I told him to throw anything he could find at the enemy."
—Throppel, auxiliary commander


"Within minutes, the strange device was indistinguishable from the other on my workbench."
—Tocasia, journal entry
"Small outbursts are healthy."
—Koth of the Hammer
Fire never dies alone.




The embodiment of yearning, forever drifting the deserts to find what had once made it whole.
After years of silence, the caves once again echo with the grisly sounds of Phyrexians preparing for war.
"For the sake of the Multiverse, I will keep watch."
"With a few minor adjustments, we were able to convert sky-dock assisters into a defense system for the Aether Spire."
—Consulate engineer's log

Even as humans regained the upper hand, some still willingly traded their lives for a chance at immortality.




"Listen to the roar! Feel the thunder! The Immersturm shouts its approval with every bolt of lightning!"

Thunder doesn't always mean rain. Sometimes it means ruin.






Between matches, combatants practice to stay in peak mental and physical form.
As the world steeled itself for the New Phyrexian invasion, the heart of the Pinelands awoke, and a new maro-sorcerer strode forth to join the fight.
To understand Ravnica, one must first understand how each guild contributes to its stability.
"Uh-hunh."

Rainclouds don't last long in Shiv, but that doesn't stop the lightning.


"Time is like the Luxa River—though it flows in one direction, it can be diverted."
"I am the purifier, the light that clears all shadows."
—Seal inscription


「最初の魔術師は荒れ狂う嵐の怒りを目撃し、それに応えようとした。」
—-嵐大工の文書





Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.
"Don't worry, folks. We're perfectly safe here. That's a banana processing plant."
Some Strixhaven study groups are more welcoming than others.


"I am the purifier, the light that clears all shadows."
—Seal inscription
"A good Tarpan will serve you, faithful and true. A bad one will kick you in the head."
—General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox
"Arise, great one, and cleanse the world of our enemies!"

Aunt and Uncle Greyfield loved dinner guests.
The stench in the hovel was overpowering; something loathsome was cooking. Occasionally something surfaced in the thick paste, but my host would casually push it down before I could make out what it was.





There was a time all craven beasts cowered before Avacyn's divine might.

Enthusiasm can be tempered in the furnace of the earth.
"The heroes of the past nourish our spirits by their example—and nourish our crops by their decay."
—Jeddeg, philosopher of graves

Like all other relics, it was left on the Radix by the elves to be destroyed. Unlike all other relics, it persisted.

"I am neither their drover nor their leader. To these majestic beasts, I am simply their herdmate and nothing more."

A lonely sentinel facing gales, hurricanes, and tides of homicidal spirits.



The remains of ancient sky tyrants now feed the war-torn land.


It rolls with the punches.
Not only does it catch fish, it cleans them too.

"Rally to my light, and together we will drive out this darkness!"
In a hobgoblin's view of the world, the weak owe tribute and fealty to the strong.
"Within minutes, the strange device was indistinguishable from the other on my workbench."
—Tocasia, journal entry

Dragons avoid the bright colors of its wings.





"I lead my horde to the northwest. I won't return until the ice wizards fall and their fiendish contraptions are crushed!"

"Every flaw in the crystal represents a moment where our strategy might go wrong."
"Come. Bring your brothers. Tonight, you feast on living flesh."
—Jadar, ghoulcaller of Nephalia
When a werewolf changes for the first time, that first howl is said to echo through the wilds till moonset.



Why was 5 afraid of 6? Because 678.




"Thought? Deceit? Progress? Now you're just making it hungry."
—Abral, kithkin alchemist


"We are a product of our ancestors, the apotheosis of countless noble generations. Speak their names with reverence, and they will guide your path."
Being a merciful pirate, she saved the vampire's gold from falling overboard.

2020 Vintage Champion
Its transmissions are the word of Memnarch. It speaks, and metal bows.





Some mages forsake their scrolls and libraries to learn at the feet of ancient trees and sacred stones.
"Let the final vision of doom be etched upon their unblinking eyes."
—Zul Ashur, lich lord


"Visions of glory, spare my aching sight,
Ye unborn ages, crowd not on my soul!"
—Thomas Gray, "The Bard"

"Defy me and I will burn the flesh from your bones. Betray me and I will steal the breath from your lungs."
The first Yawgmoth priest to harness their power was rewarded with several unique mutilations.
"Oathbreaker, I cast you out!"

The storm rages and the earth breaks.


Those who play with fire are bound to get burned.
"It's cold in the grave, and the dead crave your warmth. Who are you to deny them?"
—Strava, Dimir mage

Never content, vedalken artificers continually tinker with their creations.

"For reasons unknown to me, herds in the Arrow Bamboo Forest have become more and more agitated."
—Jiang Yanggu's travelogue

An elephant never forgives.




"Ate up all of his siblings in the first week. A good beginning for one destined to command."
—Suka, ogre matron



A sludge with a grudge.




"Just wait—I have a response."

"Everyone deserves a day in court."



Desecrating the dead is a convenient way for harpies to expand their foul collections.

"I know a good idea when I see one."
Don't underestimate the aerodynamic qualities of the common goblin.
"Blood from the vein is the finest vintage to accompany a feast of the mind."
—Runo Stromkirk
Knowledge demands sacrifice.
'Twas in the bogs of Cannelbrae My mate did meet an early grave 'Twas nothing left for us to save In the peat-filled bogs of Cannelbrae.
You should see how small the map is.
If it comes for you, die boldly or die swiftly—for die you will.
"When civilization teeters on the brink, I'll be there to kick it the rest of the way."
It rises with the fall of darkness, seeking souls to extinguish.

Unable to touch items of value, he goes forth to steal secrets instead.

"I know I should be more concerned. But a big, blue zombie-potamus from beyond the stars? This is what they're invading us with?"
—Mileva, Boros legionnaire
Greatness, at any cost.
"Your life will set with the sun."




The massive dominate through might. The tiny survive with guile. Beware the tiny who become massive.
"The second wind of ascension is Reaver, slaying the unworthy."
—*Keld Triumphant*
Joining a guild, even the Gruul, would mean giving up some of his independence. He'd rather smash what he wants to smash.
As he knows all the world completely, the world refuses him harm.




The first spell taught to young mages, it has spared the lives of many whose hands are too small to hold a sword.
Some crime scenes' secrets can only be discerned from an angel's-eye view.
The safewright Talara protects a delicate woodland waterfall. She has vowed to send wave after wave of warriors to slay any who would dare disturb its beauty.
They seek out living trees to glean age-old secrets from sap and wood.


Those who wield the power of the sun protect the Empire from darkness.

You embrace power at any cost, and if it consumes you, so be it.
The undisputed master of the mountains of Shiv.
These beings embody the essence of true heroes long dead. Summoned from the dreamrealms, they rise to meet their enemies.
Vedalken eyes don't see the beauty in things. They see only what those things can teach.

「彼女の探検は、すべての探検と同様に、予期せぬ方向への小さな一步から始まった。」
—-探検者の遺言
"Humans bring nothing but suffering and deceit. They are not welcome in my forest."
The Extinguisher's curse lasted long after her departure.




"And that's when it was discovered that boggarts have just half a brain."
—*The Book of Other Folk*




"For my confession they burned me with fire / And found that I was for endurance made."
—*The Arabian Nights*,
trans. Haddawy
"The true measure of all heroes is not what they achieve, but who they inspire."
—*Triumph of Gerrard*
"I've never seen a student fail quite so spectacularly. There's potential in that."
—Hostram, professor of arcanochemistry
Artifact construction required immense resources.





Trained in the arts of stealth, royal assassins choose their victims carefully, relying on timing and precision rather than brute force.


"And through the drifts the snowy cliffs
Did send a dismal sheen:
Nor shapes of men nor beasts we ken—
The ice was all between."
—Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
Take two steps north into the unsettled future, south into the unquiet past, east into the present day, or west into the great unknown.
A hungry lair of flourishing rot.

The forked tongue of the naga is sensitive to drifting scent trails from the past, present, and sometimes even the future.

Structures built from darksteel yield to neither assault nor age.
Those suspected of carrying the flayer curse are summarily banished, lest the corruption spread to other Necrons.
Nothing quickens the predator's blood like the unfamiliar scents of new hunting grounds and the mewling cries of new prey.

"Kill the weak so they can't drag the strong down to their level. This is true compassion."
—Benzir, archdruid of Temple Might


DANGER! Keep appendages clear of front of machine. And rear of machine. And side of machine. And top of machine.




Apearance: A skilled military commander, Ferrous is a new character for you to design.
When elves find a fount of beauty, they protect it. Where there is beauty, there is hope.
"Memnarch shall rage against us. We shall endure."
What happens when a plane of predators collides with four planes of prey?
"The best denials are simply that: a beginning and end unchanged, a dream with no memory."
"It puts an end to what ails you."
—Jeorg, Valla battlemaster
"Your corruption will burn, serpent, until there is nothing left to defile."
—Asmala, bloodfire mystic



"Do not think the sand or the sun will hold back the breath of winter."
"Her voice is justice, clear and relentless."
—Akroma, angelic avenger
Boggarts and disturbing bits of boggarts flew through the air with alarming and untidy regularity.

Felidars that make it through their first year of life can easily live to see a hundred years more.

It suddenly dawned on Jorin that farming was quite a noble profession.
Among the first allies Urza gained were the people of Kroog. As a sign of friendship, Urza gave the healers of the city potent amulets; afterwards, thousands journeyed to Kroog in hope of healing, greatly adding to the city's glory.


It's so tough it can frighten *itself* into hiding.
We all must profit for peace to last.
—Mercadian saying
"The dream does not end until I say so."


In life, they were a motley crew: farmers, lords, cutpurses, priests. In death, they are united in singular, benevolent purpose.



Linger on death's door and risk being invited in.

For each creature that arrives in its audience, the sage imparts another piece of ancient wisdom for all to hear.
Progress leads to inspiration.
When she flies above the good, they consider themselves blessed. When she flies above the wicked, they consider themselves dead.


The swarm's million wings stir the foulest of breezes.
"I bring a flood that nothing can withstand."
The seed of a world's evil.
Like blinking or breathing, responding to an alarm is an involuntary reflex.






"That's the funny thing about free will. You don't feel any different without it."
—Ambassador Laquatus



"Words lie. People lie. The land tells the truth."
The only thing you love more than a good drink is a good fight. Luckily, one usually follows the other.


They warn the army of danger as they squawk past in swift retreat.


The Hauler's Collective wields great influence over the Ravnican merchant class. Without it, little moves in the city.
"I just felt a drip. It must be about to rain."
—Stoneway Market vendor, last words

The Cho-Arrim worship life and revere those who've experienced it longest.

"We know our place in the cycle of life—and it is not as flies."
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
"While, like a ghastly rapid river, Through the pale door, A hideous throng rush out forever, And laugh—but smile no more." —Edgar Allan Poe, "The Haunted Palace"
"I feel just like Kari Zev! Ragavan, set a course for Lathnu!"
—Vorthos, Steward of Myth
She enraptures all, encompasses all, endures all.

Law is the light of civilization.

"My people blazed these pathways long ago, before the Eldrazi came. We will ride them long after the Eldrazi are gone."
"They encircled our patrol with the stealth of snakes, corralling us like livestock."
—Merrik Aidar, Benalish patrol


"The East Wind, an interloper in the dominions of Westerly Weather, is an impassive-faced tyrant with a sharp poniard held behind his back for a treacherous stab."
—Joseph Conrad, *The Mirror of the Sea*
When the Mirran resistance arrived, the furnace dwellers looked to Urabrask for guidance. His decree stunned the others: "Let them be."

"Nissa is not the only one with a deep connection to Zendikar's primal elements."
—Kiora
The mysterious purpose of two of the rings had eluded Esper mages—until now.








"Release that which was never caged."
—Spellbomb inscription

Izzet brains and Izzet boilers: contents under pressure.
"The highway of fear is the shortest route to defeat."

Arrive for worship. Leave for war.




On Mirrodin, every conflict ends in either death or darksteel.

True faith is letting the blade fall without parry. True cunning is using that moment to strike a deadly blow.
Mercadian soldiers excel at finding things to stand behind.
In matters of life and death, he trusts his gut.


Leeches never tire of feeding.
His roots reach deep, nurtured not by soil and rain, but by millennia of experience.

"Sometimes an angel passes by and gives me a little nod, like, 'You're a daring one!' That always makes my day."
"Seal the gate. This is our fight now."

"The derelor's greatest contribution to the Ebon Hand was the inspirational effect its creator's execution had upon the other thrull breeders."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. II*
"The Great River will not be tamed."
"I've sworn to protect the people from the horrors that would destroy them—even if those horrors are the angels themselves."
"When you are battered and exhausted, look up and be inspired by its resolve."
—Tazri


Togk Manytooth struggled helplessly as the kathari circled above him. For a warrior, immobilization is a fate worse than death.
It burns with the very fire that doomed Szarekh's species, and channels it to devastate his foes.




Even the lost and undead need a protector.
"Leave behind this sorrow of this body. Be blessed, being of light."


The ship has a crew of three: the pilot, the gunner, and the ship itself.


"Expect my visit when the darkness comes. The night I think is best for hiding all."
—Ouallada

While most Eternals were initiates who completed the trials, Bolas had plans for some of Amonkhet's other denizens.

In life, it was a fetid, disease-ridden thing. In death, not much changed.

Valuing scholarship above all else, the inhabitants of the Ivory Tower reward those who sacrifice power for knowledge.
An elder in one pride, of the Sigiled caste in another.
"Planeswalking isn't about walking. It's about falling and screaming."
—Xantcha, Phyrexian outcast





It's difficult to outwit something that doesn't speak, strategize, or even think.

Hers is an ancient form of necromancy, steeped in shamanic trance and ritual that few skaberen or ghoulcallers comprehend.



Water can be crushing, but it is predictable. Fire is always dynamic, its rage absolute and all-consuming.
You were on a wayward path until Bahamut showed you that power and kindness can unite beneath the same banner.
2020 Vintage Champion
Lead, follow, or run around like crazy.
"Arcum is a babbling fool! Phyrexian technology is our greatest blessing. Take this delightful trinket for instance . . ."
—Heidar, Rimewind master

Made from its wearer's hopes, the mask ensures that those hopes will be fulfilled.
Goblin cannon crews are known not for their aim but for their ability to dive for cover.
Sun Empire priests thought they were digging a well. What they tapped was something different entirely.
"Such deeds should be common fare for such as us."
—Anax, king of Akros
After their first encounter, the goblins named him Chuck.
In spite of their hunger, they're slow eaters.


"Knowledge is a stain that only instinct and ferocity can cleanse."
—Drarg, wolfcaller
"When one's word is law, one's whim is equally binding."
—Calmont, Aysen bureaucrat


The mirrors weren't fun for everyone.


"Only a knife left for a fortnight in the hollow of a ghastbark tree can inflict a wound so grave."
—Kithkin superstition
The library of Moormanor had been open to all before the Travails, and it continues to attract curious visitors.

These stealthy felines have survived so many battles that some believe they must possess many lives.




"Do not fall into the trap of thinking you understand the kami. Cannot a drop of water be dew on the meadow, a glacier's thaw, or the tear of a child?"
—Sensei Hisoka
Every tear shed is a drop of immortality.
Legend has it that Serpents used to be bigger, but how could that be?

"Poor little sun-dweller out past curfew. And to think, you might have survived if it wasn't so close to suppertime."


Rootha created constantly, passionately, in hopes of impressing her greatest critic: herself.

"Behold the power of my hat and the ghosts of two other hats I used to own!"



"That must weigh heavily on your soul. Let me purge it for you."
While the Dawnhart witches focus their magic on nature and community, other covens consort with devils and twist the elements to their will.
Its back bubbles like a witch's cauldron, and it smells just as vile.

"You aren't invited."
A pirate crew without a ship is a crew that will do anything to get one.
"Each year that passes rings you inwardly with memory and might. Wield your heart, and the world will tremble."
"Multani's heart is a seed, and all of Yavimaya is its flower. There is as much life here as in the rest of Dominaria together."
—Karn
When the shadow of the aven falls across the battlefield, hope rises in the hearts of the soldiers.


"Her mind is an incredible mix of emotion and power. Even if I could grasp it, I couldn't hold it for long."
—Jace Beleren, on Chandra Nalaar
As insubstantial, and as powerful, as the wind that carries it.


Havoc is a small price to pay for data.


"For every inch of land they take from us, we take it back or we burn it. Give them nothing."
—Aurelia
The intricate dynamics of Rundvelt Goblin affairs are often confused with anarchy. The chaos, however, is the chaos of a thundercloud, and direction will sporadically and violently appear. Pashalik Mons and his raiders are the thunderhead that leads in the storm.

Every final journey begins with a single misstep.
"While most overworlders fortunately don't realize this, Gargoyles can be most delicious, providing you have the appropriate tools to carve them."
—The Underworld Cookbook, by Asmoranomardicadaistinaculdacar



The forest floor of Murasa is home to life as diverse and vibrant as that of the canopy above.
Gremlins in the wild feed on nodules of pure aether, which are also prized by miners.
"We will mourn when there is time. For now, we survive."

The strength of one. The courage of ten.



"If magic is your crutch, cast it aside and learn to walk without it."
—Teferi
Even the wicked have nightmares.


"I craved enlightenment, and Crucius's etherium opened my eyes. I would share my sight with you, but first you must believe."




Dromoka's scalelords patrol the skies over Arashin, offering her people safety from the harsh world.
Ish Sah, den of the warlord Geth, commander of countless nim.

No guilds—that is her rule. The House vampires unnerve her. The Combine would dissect her, the Legion burn her, the Conclave "cure" her. The shadows are all the family she needs.
Malice spreads on wings of tyranny.
It's much easier to list the places they *haven't* been.

Legend has it that the mine howls out the last words of those who died inside.
In Argoth, the shortest path between two points is the one the swine make.
Within silent clearings guarded by living palisades, the natural world guards its most precious secrets.

"I bless the living with a song of death."
—Lord Dralnu


"If the druids are so devoted to their trees, I will carve them coffins from their precious heartwood."
—Volrath

Elves revere cycles of renewal, but they prefer cycles that don't involve their homes getting smashed.

Don't confuse lunacy with courage.



"He is Yawgmoth's reward to me. I shall kill him a hundred times a day."
—Crovax, to Ertai
With the cycles of day and night unspooled, the twisted sway of the moon only grew. And grew.
Created to destroy Dominia, Demons can sometimes be bent to a more focused purpose.
"You are not alone. You never were."

The Keldons used the toxic vents in the cracked earth to bolster their home's defenses.

In a single blinding flash, Yawgmoth was obliterated, and Urza could finally rest.
"Trickery can't defeat raw power."
—Matoc, lavamancer





"Listen to the roar! Feel the thunder! The Immersturm shouts its approval with every bolt of lightning!"


The Astrotorium's Clown-Bots are programmed to delight attendees by any means necessary.
Only a matter as vital as destroying Volrath could bring together the reclusive kor people.
The ground won't accept them.


Their fires burn quietly, allowing the phoenixes to glide silently through the canyon.


Tobias spent decades tormenting pirates on the open sea and decades more dancing lifelessly beneath it.


The thunder of its hooves beats dreams into despair.
Draped with the pennon of a fallen outpost, the sword came to symbolize the peoples of Zendikar becoming one.
It *is* the thing that goes bump in the night.

Serra's blessing lies strongest upon Sursi, where her holy chapels are untouched even as the Cabal encroaches.
"Body and spirit are sworn enemies. They will take any excuse to be rid of each other."
—Tariel, Reckoner of Souls
When the forests became havens for evil, the archmages devised new ways to cleanse the wilds.
In the autumn, she casts her seeds across the streets below, and come spring, her children rise in service to the Conclave.
"We know our place in the cycle of life—and it is not as flies."
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves




"Be ever loyal to your own best interests."
"The Golgari expand, yes, but I refuse to call their tainted creations 'growth.'"
—Veszka, Selesnya evangel
New Argive welcomed the kor people when they were displaced by the Rathi overlay. The kor repay that kindness with fierce loyalty.
Dreadwings spring from lofty perches to surprise kathari in midflight. They smother their prey and then consume it as they glide gently toward the ground.

The falcon slits the sky to let the light drip through.
—Kor saying



Some Golgari insects live for centuries-and they never stop growing.





"We need to block the exits from the plaza! What's big, heavy, and available?"
—Gideon Jura
Grelden knelt and felt the cool, dry hand of the priest on his brow. Hours later, when his wits returned, he was covered in his enemies' blood on the field of victory.


Moss-covered statues littered the area, a macabre monument to the Basilisk's power.
When the alliance between Balduvia and Kjeldor deprived Stromgald of easy victories, its agents were forced to fuel their rituals with their own flesh.



"It had a mouth like that of a great beast, and gnashed its teeth as it strained to reach us. I am thankful it possessed no means of locomotion."
—Vervamon the Elder

"I'm bored with now."

Infinitely powerless.

The elves had the edge in guile, skill, and valor. But in the end, only sheer numbers mattered.
"To reach my age, you must know when to bend with the winds and when to stand tall."








"The black lotus rises from adverse conditions and produces a rare bloom. We grow the lotus to remind us to look to the future despite the suffering of the present."


"The weak shall fall. The strong shall remain."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
Each day of their journey, Jandor opened the saddlebags and found them full of mutton, quinces, cheese, date rolls, wine, and all manner of delicious and satisfying foods.







She protects the sacred groves from blight, drought, and the Unbeholden.




Those who see the squirrels go underground in the winter aren't ready for what emerges in the spring.
To gain audience with the hegemon, one must bring a riddle she has not heard.

"Try to pretend like you understand what's important."
"Surely it won't notice if I take@-"
@-Theria the Sly, last words

Reinforcements . . . or refreshments?

It's surprising how well cute and vicious go together.


"When the sword becomes a burden, let the warrior lay it aside that another with a truer heart might take it up."
—Radiant, archangel



"One knife, two knives, three knives, four—which will drop you to the floor?"
After diverting around the eleventh construction barrier, the taxi driver began to suspect she was being herded into a trap.






"Centuries of war had broken Arcavios, but a single seed began the long process of renewal."
—*The Mystic Age: A Saga of Spells*
Snail shell, fern, tornado—the world connects all things in form.

A place to relax, if you have the proper permit.

All it knows is the difference between friend and food.


"I am the purifier, the light that clears all shadows."
—Seal inscription
"What sort of life is that, huddling in the familiar and safe? No thanks. Put me right in the center of the action."
It was only then—to his infinite sorrow—that Gork realized hornets don't make honey.
A point to pierce flesh and spirit alike.

"Cogs on cats / Cogs on dogs / Cogs on hats / And cogs on cogs."
—*Song of the Cogmentor*

Weighing in at a combined thirteen thousand pounds and two ounces.
"The gods don't speak to mortals with gentle entreaties. They speak with thunder and fury."
In water, it's as graceful as a dolphin. On land, it darts and jerks so unpredictably that few can ride it for long.




Success is one part inspiration, nine parts desperation.
Known simply by her title, Oracle uses her gift of prophecy to aid her people. She believes Gerrard to be the *Korvecdal*, the one who will unite the people of Rath against Volrath's tyranny. Her only doubt is whether she will be strong enough to guide him to his destiny.
From the eyes up, it's solid bone and stubbornness.

The clouds broke and the sun's rays burst forth; each foul beast in its turn faltered, and was gone.


Moss-covered statues littered the area, a macabre monument to the Basilisk's power.

Kytheon had known war every day of his life. Now he finally knew peace.
"May Lady Luck smile upon you some other day, pal."

Some sky steeds break from the thundering herd to ride free on the open winds.

"There is always another way."


"On every plane I've encountered loxodons, I've found stalwart and loyal friends."
—Elspeth

"It misses nothing and it has no sense of humor."
—Barvisa, courtroom scribe

"Within our minds are limitless depths. Dive down, but don't forget to surface."
—Teferi


"You trust in the shadows of a breeze."
—Noyan Dar, Tazeem lullmage
The match between Tahngarth and Greven was close only in the mind of the minotaur.





The mage looked within and realized there was still one piece of fuel to burn.



"Don't you agree that mogg intellects are improved by zombification?"
—Lord Dralnu

Fed up with webs impeding travelers in other realms, Kolvori banished the giant spiders to Gnottvold, where their webs snare only the occasional rampaging troll.

"Weapons usually bring death. Today, mine will bring life."

As Gideon kept the brood lineages at bay, Chandra incinerated the bound Eldrazi titans.
"487. You're welcome."
—Bucky, flavor text writer
"Don't worry. I'm not going to deprive you of all your secrets. Just your most precious one."
—Liliana Vess


Legend has it that Serpents used to be bigger, but how could that be?


"Even paradise is not without tragedies."
—Sarkhan Vol



Leeches are sacred to followers of Pharika for drawing poison from a wound, but feared by everyone else for drawing blood from the flesh.
Blight grenades—which induce horrendous effects on their victims—have no impact on the Death Guard, who gladly use the devices in extreme close quarters with the enemy.
Even when recruitment is slow, the guild can always cook something up.
"The strongest shadow spells come from disdain for someone else, not frustration with yourself."
—Embrose, Silverquill dean
It doesn't like having visitors . . . unless it's having them for lunch.



The mysterious purpose of two of the rings had eluded Esper mages—until now.




The efreet are drawn to the Kaisham Wanderers, a loosely organized Jeskai school where trickery is employed to challenge the status quo and upend the belief systems of others.




Under Drana's leadership, vampires are finding new strength in unity.
The goblins didn't think of the myr at all, which allowed the myr to observe everywhere unhindered.
Wracked and warped with anguish, it obsessively seeks out other souls to hoard within its eternal prison.
"Sympathy is for weaklings. Whoever survives, wins."
—Benzir, archdruid of Temple Might


"What else, when chaos draws all forces inward to shape a single leaf." —Conrad Aiken
She wept, not from perfect understanding, but from serene gratitude.

"Etherium is limited. Innovation is not."
—Tezzeret

"All life is driven by an indomitable will to survive. I simply turn that into something more . . . tangible."

"The crucible yields what you have forged in your mind. You need only reach in and draw the masterwork forth."
—Wahara, Keeper of the Crucible
The Consulate prizes innovation when it is dependable and replicable.

Mastery is achieved when "telling time" becomes "telling time what to do."
"I gazed once into that light. Now it burns in my mind, forever denying me rest."
—Riku of Two Reflections
"I've lit most everything on fire—trees, rocks, even the water. Now it's time to burn the clouds."

Fire giants love to fight on a large scale, and Duke Zalto is one of the greatest warmongers of his age.



Good riddance.
'Tis better to give than to receive.

"I've seen cathars riding to battle without a hint of fear. Perhaps that is its own sort of madness."
—Esler, Havengul mercenary

"If there is a fire that never ceases to burn, it surely lies in the maw of a dragon."
—Sarkhan Vol
"Learn to see an obstacle from a new perspective. Underneath, for example."
—Chanyi, Ojutai monk
"Pyrotechnic activity of any sort is strictly prohibited. It is irrelevant that today is a holiday."



Like most giant monsters villagers worship as gods, it proves a fickle master.
"Great Serpent, hear my song! We wait, our faith unshaken, for your glorious return."



Its secrets once wrought the greatest artifice ever known. Now crabs loot the rubble to decorate their shells.



"Keep a green tree in your heart and perhaps the singing bird will come."
—Chinese proverb
Memnarch created the myr with three qualities in mind: dependability, controllability, and disposability.

"The paradox of jade statues is that their victims never really expect attack, but they are never completely surprised either."
—Kabel, Tolarian archivist
The promise of anguish is payment enough for services rendered.

The remnants of Innistrad's corrupted angelic hosts collapsed to form the Flight of Nightmares.

A howl on the wind hides many dangers.


"Virtue is virtue, whatever the heart that nurtures it."
—Malacan, Vantress exile
It's hard to say for certain which end is more dangerous.

Young tower drakes quickly learn to maneuver among Benalia's many spires.

"This is bigger than you. All of you."
—Tezzeret
When a Keldon takes a trophy from an enemy, it's usually something they can use to kill more enemies.
A banner for bonds of blood or belief.

"The race is run in the mind before the first step is taken."
—Dosan the Falling Leaf
This horrid invention clearly illustrates why Mishra's lieutenant was feared as much by her troops as by her foes.

"Imagine being scared of pixies. Just smoosh them under your boot!"
—Kerish, Urzan mechanist
Never alone, never afraid.

The time rifts remind Yavimaya of the enemies of its past and provide fresh fuel for its fires.
The eclipse made it clear whose side the sky was on.


"Out there, there are spirits, but here, there is wine."
—Blessing for the bounty of Kjeld

His slaves crave death more than they desire freedom. He denies them both.


The clicks and buzz of the undercity proclaim him the incarnation of decay.

"It was big. Really, really, big. No, bigger than that. It was *big!*"
—Arna Kennerüd, Skyknight

"I'm allergic to shellfish—not only did it kill my entire village, it also gave me this nasty rash."
—Olivia, fisher



"The duel was going badly for me, and Zur thought I was finished. He boasted that he would eat my soul—but all he ate were his words."
—Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran Royal Mage



"We look in the river and see scattered stones. A merrow looks and sees a map of Lorwyn."
—Illulia, flamekin soulstoke
Bant's hearts are as pure as its air and as bright as its skies.

"I hope none of those were important!"


"As long as your courage remains, your life will not falter."
—Sephara, Sky's Blade
"The explorer who found it got a bad deal when he sold it. He merely got rich."



She never would've guessed that her last word would be "Whoops!"
Every life ends, but life itself never does.


The realms crashed together, with Bretagard at the center of the calamity.
"What a show! We're going to make a killing tonight."

Boros soldiers are like a cache of bombs ready to explode, and the flame-kin light their fuses.
"Give up these unnatural weapons, these scrolls. Heart and mind and fist are enough."
—Zyd, Kamahlite druid





It loomed up over the horizon, silent and dark as a grave.
Their natural curiosity, combined with a knack for trespassing, makes sprites excellent spies.


Not only the sleeping should fear dreams.
With a great roar, the land opened like a titan's yawn, with teeth of blackened rock and a lolling tongue of magma.


A leaf dancer sweeps through the forest like a spring breeze, evading even the sharpest eyes and ears.
"Everyone has a price."

A power vacuum for the Azorius. A keepsake for Vraska.



Finders, keepers.
"I don't have time for you right now."
—Teferi
Denizens of Rath had never seen the moon before. It was a symbol of change, not constancy.
"Get behind my shield!"
Sometimes the wise ones wove their magic into living plants; as the plant grew, so grew the magic.
Olka collected the evening mist for years, studying its secrets. Once she learned its essence, she could vanish with a thought.


Zur remained aloof from Terisiare's suffering, intent only on his own perfection.
"Honor, guide my step."

"Belong in a museum? I think we should let relics belong wherever they please!"
—Quintorius, Lorehold mage-student
"The mist whispers to those who know it to be more than a mundane fog."
His mission has become a grim pilgrimage, a tour of the Eldrazi-stricken outposts across Zendikar. But he marches on alone, stubborn as the daily dawn.
"Getting people to do what you want is merely a matter of telling them what they want to hear."
They lived in different nations and fought in different eras, but as the Returned, they link arms as one.



Forever restless. Forever growing in number.



"I can't abide laziness. Arise, forces of nature, and serve your master!"
Frozen in fear, the goblins stared upward at the circling hunter—and were promptly eaten by its diving mate.
"I've gleaned greater insight from the spiraling of a single fern than I have from all the books I've ever read."
—Kianne, Quandrix dean
"The bonders work with creatures that fly, slink, and burrow. Assume they know everything."
—Jirina Kudro




Slivers are often seen toying with enemies they capture, not out of cruelty, but to fully learn their physical capabilities.



While the gremlin, beeble, and squirrel infestations wrecked havoc on the park, Roxi was able to spin the numerous rat colonies as a "robust recycling program."



"Come and listen. I'll tell you the story of a nation lost to time, and of the man who caused it."
"The East Wind, an interloper in the dominions of Westerly Weather, is an impassive-faced tyrant with a sharp poniard held behind his back for a treacherous stab."
—Joseph Conrad, *The Mirror of the Sea*
The kor send their thopter kites to see if the land is in a welcoming mood.
She speaks with the voice of the winds, and the earth trembles.
"What's your plan?" Gideon asked. "Are you serious?" Chandra replied.
Interesting tidbit: Surveys show that the card Ow has one of the most popular pieces of flavor text in the *Unglued* expansion.







Millennium Platform, once a monument to peace, was quickly seized by the skyknights for its strategic aerial location.

Properly honored dead gain the peace of the grave and freedom from the call of the Ghost Quarter.
"Dromoka has taught me the secrets of her kind, that I might use them in her service."
"Cower, fiend. The night is yours no longer."
Masters of the arcane savor a delicious irony. Their study of deep and complex arcana leads to such a simple end: the ability to say merely yes or no.


"Men and rats both hunger: we for our playthings; they, for us."
—Crovax
"The stories tell of a distant time when machines overran the forests, destroying everything that lived. That time will not come again."



Tharashk the Bold suddenly wasn't himself. Or anyone else, for that matter.
"Can you build a fire? Track a deer? Identify killer trees? Then you'll never survive Kessig without me."


"When their community grows cluttered, thallids begin a traditional bobbing dance, then trek out in all directions."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. III*

"The Westfolk wept, and their tears wore winding rivers into the cheek of the world."
—Glem the Lonebard, "Origins of Kholon"
Nothing of nature nor of mortals can stand forever.



"The darkness merely hides the light."
"Agresto, bring up the rear . . . Agresto?"
—Sergeant Dremark Eigen, last words


One way to keep the peace is to make war look like a really bad idea.
The pits have their own form of mercy.
Your skill, dexterity, and moral flexibility make you a valuable asset to your guild.
The first wave of slivers perished from the Riptide wizards' magic. The second wave shrugged off their spells like water.


"A river of lava is just another river to cross."
"This trinket will gain you admittance to some painfully exclusive gatherings."
—Exava, blood witch
"Peace is a privilege you haven't earned."
—Tevesh Szat
Poached Rukh Eggs
Rock
Cooked Rock
Unicorn-on-the-Cob
Wormfang Turtle Soup



The wardens guard the sacred documents of Tarkir's history, though they are forbidden to read the words.


The continent of Ondu is a vast plateau crisscrossed by deep trenches and meandering rivers.






"Why don't we fight for what's right and let bureaucrats argue over details?"
Not all silences are easily broken.
The voice of a rakshasa is soft, its breath sweet. But every word is the murmur of madness.


"Hol visto intere civiltà. sorgere e crollare. Voi mortali non siete che polvere per me."
—Sorin Markov
"Why do we trade with those despicable Elves? You don't live in forests, you burn them!"
—Avram Garrisson, Leader of the Knights of Stromgald
"Hasn't she heard of knocking?!"
—Snerd, Flaming Fist guard
The mind is a beautiful bounty encased in an annoying bone container.
Liliana inspires horror in many and fanatical admiration in a few.

The nomadic kor carry only necessities on their long treks. The coming of the Eldrazi redefined "necessities."
The pattern of life can be studied like a book, if you know how to read it.
Tired doesn't even begin to cover it.
"If you call the wolves, ensure you have a worthy hunt, or you may become the hunted."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter

Some days, it just feels like trash. Other days, it could really go for some people.


Born to, and of, rock.


"With a great cry, the Goblin host broke and ran as the first wave of Knights penetrated its ranks." —Tivadar of Thorn, *History of the Goblin Wars*
If you want to destroy something lifeless, make it live.

"Reality, when broken down, is just math."
—Deekah, professor of fractal theory
"You don't want to know what happens after I put on the goggles."


"Yawgmoth," Freyalise whispered as she set the bomb, "now you will pay for your treachery."




"The Founder Dragons brought the Blood Age to an end. It is an honor to serve them."

"Everything comes with a price. Especially revolution."
—Grenzo, dungeon warden
"When the waves pick up, either you find your feet or you lose your lunch."
The aberrant magic of the Rimewind drew the unicorns back from the northern wastes to do battle once again.
"There is no power too great to be used in the defense of our ancestral lands."
Mood: Surrounded by the abundance of nature.
The first tentative flaps are like a song to his soul.

The merfolk call the sky goddess Emeria. The kor call her Kamsa. The two races agree on little except that she offers many blessings to the faithful.




Its windpipe is only the first to amplify its maddening laughter.
Forged by divine hands to wander mortal realms.
It spoke with the voice of nature, but its words were curses spat upon humankind.






"Magic overused can freeze the mind. Creativity is more important than power."
—Zur the Enchanter


The two looked at each other, and neither fled. "I see," the soldier murmured. "We're both just fighting for survival out here, aren't we?"
"Seeing so much easy prey makes her crazy. See how she snorts and drools?"
—Dhuuz, kronch wrangler


"Part of me believes that Barrin taught me meditation simply to shut me up."
—Ertai, wizard adept


"Relax. I'm sure it's just a snake hissing."
—Avram Garrisson, leader of the Knights of Stromgald

This secret society of mages manipulates the beliefs and opinions of others.



Visitors to Shiv fear the dragons, the goblins, or the viashino. Natives fear the ants.
"I leave words like 'impossible' to the rabble. Whatever I can imagine, I can create."
—Ixidor, reality sculptor

Which is worse—the sleep which never ends or that which never comes?




Elementals flourished as Dominaria healed and new forms of life adapted to the land's reinfusion with mana.
"I was promised an afterlife, not this. Samut was right. The God-Pharaoh lied."
—Djeru, former Tah-crop initiate


The Wall of Bone is said to be an aspect of the Great Wall in Hel, where the bones of all sinners wait for Ragnarok, when Hela will call them forth for the final battle.

"You will learn to earn death."
—Volrath
"The Simic can grow anything out of a puddle of sludge. I just hope they never join forces with the Golgari."
—Teysa Karlov, Grand Envoy of Orzhov
The Forest of Argoth has developed a resistance to mechanical intrusion.


From trinket to trauma.
The Rubblefield was once among the wealthiest districts in Ravnica. All it took was a single wurm to reduce it to ruins.





Nightscape masters don't stop at raising the spirit of a fallen battlemage. They raise the flesh along with it.

"If you're not refining your tastes, what's the point of living forever?"
Exhausting a wizard can be exhausting work.
"The most impressive performances can be done only once."
—Mote, Rakdos madcap
Lyzolda's pet rats eat better than the average citizen. In fact, they can usually be found eating the average citizen.
Every attack is a test of your defenses. Every hit marks the map of your defeat.
When there were no more crows to scare, it focused its efforts elsewhere.
The hunter would never forget the time or place where he first met the carnassid, for they buried him there.

The naga of the Sultai Brood made deals with dark forces to keep their power.
That which lasts longest serves best.







The stench of bloodcap mushrooms on the breath is enough to ward off even the most potent magics, especially when combined with a special chant: "Hushhh."
"The key to unlocking this puzzle is within you."
—Doriel, mentor of Mistral Isle
Working with his noble mount, he notices every form on the horizon, every scent in the air, every tremor in the earth.
"Hold your bitterness deep within, and there let it fester. Let it roil and squirm and churn, until you are filled with bile so poisonous that all you touch falls to ruin."
—Morarion, Daemon Primarch
"While the church thinks in terms of legacies, others think in terms of eternities."
When the giant Tollek Worldslayer fell, a corruption erupted from his corpse to carry on his name.


The third time the Oracle glanced suspiciously at him, Starke decided she had glanced twice too often.
Unaware of Lorwyn's diversity, it sees only itself, reflected a thousand times over.
At least this was better than that week at the Juri Revue.

"Like ribbons of wind and wisdom the coatls fly, twisting mystery into truth, shaping the clouds to suit their inscrutable will."
—Huatli

"Soon, Serra will return and choose the Abbot's successor, else we are lost."
—Gulsen, Abbey Matron
The same spears that catch their food today will defend their homes tomorrow.

There is much talk about the art of creation. What about the art of destruction?
"Tread the roads of righteousness, Murat, lest you lose your way and be consumed."
—Baris, Serra Inquisitor

Somehow he never seems to run out of meat.

"The Eldrazi may not be intimidated, but if it boosts the goblins' confidence, I see no reason to discourage it."
—Jalun, Affa sentry
Terrible fury. Excellent aim.





Such is the power of Rakdos that even his shadow takes on a cruel life of its own.
"I don't know why people say a double-edged sword is bad. It's a sword. With two edges."
—Kamahl, pit fighter
"Crawing, crawing, For my crowse crawing, I lost the best feather i' my wing For my crowse crawing."
—Anonymous Scottish ballad




Formerly oppressed by the polis of Meletis, leonin occasionally "mistake" their old enemies for game.
"For twelve days and twelve nights, Somat assailed the monster's shell. On the thirteenth morning, it cracked with the dawn."
—*Heroics: A Book of Fables*





History is the study of repetition.





Tervish never noticed that the amulet had vanished. It had disappeared not only from his possession, but from his memory as well.
Sometimes an eruption in Shiv produces something more dangerous than a mere river of molten rock.


A knight's devotion to their steed goes only so far.




Sometimes the books hit back.

"The spirit of the flame is the spirit of change."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
"Beautiful, indeed—but one sting could fell a Giant in a heartbeat."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, Elvish Hunter


They spawn from shadow, wreaking chaos until shadow claims them again.

"For sun's sake, I just want a crab!"

"Beauty to the eye does not always translate to the touch."
—Naimah, Femeref philosopher
If you want to wreak havoc above, sometimes it's best to look below.


"The Immortal Sun will bring us true eternal life to replace the everlasting shadow of undeath."

"As this conflict grows, it gets harder to prevent the city from breaking down. How much longer can we keep this machinery balanced?"
"There is great wisdom in rushing headlong into combat . . . if you're prepared."
@-Kenjek, captain of the Thousand Swords
"Like dawn's first light, blind the unprepared and banish the shadows."
—Skyhunter creed


A good courier travels fast and asks no questions.

My thunder comes before the lightning; my lightning comes before the clouds; my rain dries all the land it touches. What am I?
—Femeref riddle




"The humans and their gods never blessed me. Only the pride deserves my allegiance."

"We are each other's shadow, fleeting yet always present."


A heavy weapon deals plenty of damage—but it does have to hit.



Successful delivery is *not* guaranteed.
"Wisdom from the past is best gathered directly from the source."






"Animals commune with their environment without the need for language. Theirs is a fundamental connection that surpasses flimsy words."
@-Vivien Reid
"The land is not dead, merely dormant. It will awaken if you know how to ask."
—Gilanra, Caller of Wirewood
Deserted, but not uninhabited.

"No one may fault an Elvish Ranger's heart, but the simplest frailty may fell even the proudest warrior."
—Kaysa, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order
"When you live for others, you live for yourself."


The gods are fascinated by innocence, perhaps because it's a quality they themselves lack.
"What we knew as Emeria, Ula, and Cosi were not divine beings at all, but a cruel trick, and a grave error."
—*The Invokers' Tales*
"One does not question the size or shape of the grains of sand in an hourglass. Nor do I question the temperament of the souls under my guidance."
Heart of a titan, faith as bright as the dawn.

"I've got everything you'd ever need right here. Just give me some time to find it."



"We must shake her limbs and rattle her brains."
—Grandmother Sengir
The maiden is a jealous lover.



"C'mon, Boodigan, let's go see what kind of treasure this place has!"
"Knowledge of Bant's landscape and ruins is a weapon that the invaders can't comprehend."
—Elspeth



"I have seen and heard much here. There are secrets within secrets. Let me show you."
—Takara, to Eladamri

"You might as well try to stop the waterfall."
"I am rooted in the life of all that thrives around me. You cannot move me."



"Carrion! Keep your distance. My blade will come to you!"
—Crovax

"The best skaab are more powerful and more beautiful than the sum of their parts."
—Stitcher Geralf
Without the viziers to oversee their actions, some anointed went to extreme lengths to fulfill their directives.

Born from the oldest red cedar, nursed on the sap of the tallest spruce, coronated under the mightiest pine.
"The embers of our homes still smolder, and already the villages of Kjeldor burn in retaliation. What they have started, we will finish."
—Lovisa Coldeyes
"Are you seriously telling me your heavy combat mech . . . blew away?"
—Risona, leader of the Asari Uprisers
The academy worked with time—until time ran out.
To the sorrow of all, its winds found sin in the hearts of those who once learned from its wisdom.
The sea respects no boundaries, least of all the coast.


The bellow of a minotaur always translates to "charge."

Its breath is a gale. Its roar is a volcano. Its anger tears soul from flesh.

Their language may be a cacophonous agglomeration of chittering snorts and mad barking, but the message they send is all too clear.
"Gunner" can't hear you over the sound of his swagger.
He chanted over a pot of boiling blood and honey. His brain buzzed like a nest of hornets, and his muscles rippled with the might of the bear.



He watches the pass in both directions, and all must pay his toll.



"When I wish to be strong, I train. When I wish to be wise, I study. When I wish to rest, I start again."
Never mistake deception for cleverness.
"Good! Now put it with the other widdle bunnies."
—Sargis Haz, artificer

"Blades dull and armor dents. Marisi taught us that instinct is the only thing a true warrior needs."
—Ajani
Fighting for the right reason is itself a source of strength.






The goblins say it used to be larger, before it began to stoke the Great Furnace with pieces of itself.


Even the most conservative generals revised their tactics after the Battle of Sarinth, during which a handful of peasant-pikemen held off a trio of rampaging Craw Wurms.
Goblins from the Makindi Trenches of Ondu make surprisingly skilled climbing guides due to their habit of scaling the cliffs to drop onto unsuspecting foes.

"You have to admit, Gideon—he has great form."
—Liliana Vess
"Rauck-Chauv's like a holiday! Only it isn't on the calendars, and instead of dancing you knock people flat, and instead of giving gifts you break stuff."
"I welcome the use of even the foulest magic if it will rid us of the monstrosities that plague our world."
—Munda, ambush leader

"Build your towers as tall as you want. The shadow always reaches higher."
—Message scrawled on an alley wall
Aether currents in the sky mirror water currents below, including the deadly rapids.

"Blood is constant. Every drop I drink, someone must bleed."
—Vradeen, vampire nocturnus
"A massacre? It is a mercy we grant them. This way they won't freeze to death."



The impact sent the soldiers scattering—then something came out of the crater.
"Let the air itself protect you, for it is everywhere."
—Master wizard
"How dull it is to pause, to make an end,/ To rust unburnished, not to shine in use,/ As though to breathe were life!"
—Alfred, Lord Tennyson, "Ulysses"
"Brute force can sometimes kick down a locked door, but knowledge is a skeleton key."






The Quietus Cult holds their grim ceremonies in the dark places where unburied dead litter the ground.



"For what are leaves but countless blades To fight a countless foe on high."
—Elvish hymn

The traditional kings of the jungle command a healthy respect in other climates as well. Relying mainly on their stealth and speed, Savannah Lions can take a victim by surprise, even in the endless, flat plains of their homeland.



"There is no sweeter sound than the deafening thunder of utter destruction."
—Kamahl, Pit Fighter
There are few ways to escape the deathmark: bargaining with a demon, washing in the fabled waters of youth, and of course, death.



Vela snuffs out every trace of Krond's reign, leaving pure nightfall in her wake.

In times of war, only death flourishes.



The Sanctum Seekers were the first of the knightly orders to cross the sea and are still the most zealous.
"He's paid his price. Now you pay mine."






"It was a strange morning. When we awoke, we found our trees transformed. We didn't know whether to water them or polish them."
—Pulan, Bant orchardist


Dust-spiked winds eroded the stones, but the ground where they had stood still holds power.
Each spike is poisoned—the trapmaker's idea of mercy.
"From shards and splinters I call forth my living horde."
—Molimo, maro-sorcerer


The angels did not deceive. From the start, they were clear their allegiance was to the God-Pharaoh and to him alone.

"It offers you what you want, not what you need."
—Braids, dementia summoner


"Sometimes it is better to be swift of foot than strong of swordarm."
—Elven Proverb
The appearance of a kirin signifies the passing or arrival of an important figure. As word of sightings spread, all the khans took it to mean themselves. Only the shaman Chianul thought of Sarkhan Vol.




As the sludge below began to shift and take shapes, Gerrard turned from the railing to Orim. "I suppose," he said, "it's a little too late for prayer, isn't it?"

"They say a Zhalfirin archer can split the eye of a griffin. Nonsense, of course; they have no faith to guide their darts."
—Nuru, Femeref archer
Rhonas continued to fight until his last breath and even beyond.
Many venture out to hunt for treasures. Others lie in wait to hunt the hunters.
"Thank you. This blade becomes so hot in my hand, but your blood has quenched it."



In the end, death usually has its way.
When angels despair, what hope can remain for mortals?

"Oi oi oi, me gotta hurt in 'ere
Oi oi oi, me smell a ting is near,
Gonna bosh 'n gonna nosh 'n da hurt'll disappear." —Traditional
Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.

"I need no army. I have Jamuraa."


Glory surged through her and radiance surrounded her. All things were possible with the blessing of the Divine.

"When you have the chance, take it. Laugh, sing, dance. Don't allow the night to end."
Born with wings of light and a sword of faith, this heavenly incarnation embodies both fury and purity.


Something roams the killing places, sniffing the guilt of the slayers, stalking them on iron paws.
Abandoned years ago, the experiment continues to iterate upon itself.





We encountered a valley topped with immense boulders and eerie rock formations. Suddenly one of these boulders toppled from its perch and sprouted gargantuan wings, casting a shadow of darkness and sending us fleeing in terror.

Made of bone and boiled in blood, a Rakdos signet is not considered finished until it has been used as a murder weapon.
"They are gentle herbivores, despite their size. Approach cautiously, and hum a tune to let them know you mean no harm."
—Vivien Reid
"Don't worry, your death will be as informative as possible."
—Gorghul, augur of skulls







Part tool, part weapon, part of the kor.
"If I am to die in service, there is no more worthy fight than this."
「兄弟の一人は多元宇宙のために戦った。もう一人は自分のために。」
――*古呪の寓話*


"I hear that Boros is losing its angels to the Gateless Movement. I'm sure this comes as no surprise to you."
—Teysa, to Lazav

The limbs of Pendelhaven extend as far as the meek roam, and reach as high as they strive.

"Behold blessed perfection."
—Sheoldred, Whispering One
In the silence of the ice, even dreams become still.
Blood is holy to those whose god is War.
"Terrible wind. It whipped sparks into our skin, then stoked them even hotter!"
—Bowen, Barrenton guardcaptain

The wait is proportional to the weight.



The ideas came flooding in so fast that they couldn't all be contained.


Every tear shed is a drop of immortality.
"The construction of a defense is not accomplished by adding bricks."
—Jace Beleren


New cults rising in Nephalia have found allies in the Stromkirk bloodline, whose progenitor worships ancient and terrible forces.




"What do a hero and an arrow have in common? In times of war are many more made."
—Elvish riddle
A wurm knows nothing of deception. If it opens its mouth, it plans to eat you.

Legend has it that Serpents used to be bigger, but how could that be?

"Give up these unnatural weapons, these scrolls. Heart and mind and fist are enough."
—Zyd, Kamahlite druid




"The quieter the skies, the calmer the mind."

Countless delights drift on the surface while dark schemes run below.

You never thought "rations" was an appropriate term for the feasts you prepare for your party.
"May all the cairns of Jund be toppled."
@-Meren of Clan Nel Toth
"When your enemy flees, send the sea to pursue them."
—Kiora





"Survival rule 782: There are *always* more scute bugs."
—Zurdi, goblin shortcutter
"We'll put it all back! The gems, the gold, the chalice that would've looked great on my mantle; we'll put everythi—"


"Yes, there's competition between our equenauts and the Boros skyjeks. At least they think it's a competition."

Deep within the forsaken cavern, a new shadow emerged to devour the light.




"It was vast, a great sheet of soaring wings, and equally silent. It caught us unawares and blocked our view of the kithkin stronghold."
—Grensch, merrow cutthroat


"One who ruled willing subjects would need no such protection."
—Adriana, Captain of the Guard
"To the tutors, a 'poem of sand' was of little account, a 'poem of ivory,' priceless."
—Afari, *Tales*
"Now that I've dealt with your little toys, I can focus on the real problem: you."
—Chandra Nalaar, to Dovin Baan


"You claim wisdom, yet I see nothing in here but tawdry wishes."
A mastodon's path always leads to an oasis.


"To death all must go, and so in death lies ultimate power."
—Geth, Lord of the Vault
"Living scarecrows make a mockery of the natural order. Dead ones make fine hats."
His drums echo Deepwood's heartbeat.

Deep within the endless webs of cloning silk, the weaver awaits.

While his master tried to surpass nature, Tawnos aimed to capture its beauty.




"Art is never finished. Merely abandoned."
Half the size, double the mayhem.






"For generations, we have bred and trained falcons for expeditions into Emeria. Now more sky ruins open themselves to those with the means to reach the heights!"


"For those without the Planeswalker spark, the merest touch of the Blind Eternities can kill."
—Ugin


"Instincts to guide. Strength to overcome."
Her call echoes across worlds, calling the loyal to battle.
"If their ears are to the ground, we will make them bleed!"
—Taklai, Kolaghan warrior

"If our former masters would have us kneel again, they shall feel our defiance slashed across their membranes."
The River Heralds believe that jade gives weight to their magic.
The blade glows only for Zendikar's chosen.
On Murasa, even the trees grow trees.
Rishada is the gateway to free trade—but the key will cost you.





"You're in luck. I brought enough to share."
—Chandra Nalaar


Even the oppressive cold of the cave could not temper Eladamri's ire.
What remained of the Lunarch Inquisition found new ways to extract confessions.

Infinite possibilities contained in a finite space.
Fascinated by the lore of ancient struggles, archaeologists search incessantly for remnants of an earlier, more powerful era.
"Brassclaws were typical Orcs—quick to laud their own prowess in battle, quick to jeer at their opponents, and quicker still to run away when things started to look slightly dangerous."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV*


"Her voice is damnation, unyielding and certain."
—Phage the Untouchable

"Being the best usually means proving it to everyone."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*




The myr are like razorgrass: numberless metal figures, reflecting each other's light.

"Who among you has the courage to face certain death? Who will heed my call?"
—Rayel Vanger, Firstblade of Thune
First, whispers of ancient days. Then, visions of things to come.
"It was a strange morning. When we awoke, we found our trees transformed. We didn't know whether to water them or polish them."
—Pulan, Bant orchardist
Drink deep, and know the path to the heart of the wilds.




The cruelest strain of plague keeps its hosts alive long enough to return home and infect their families.
"Where will you run when I punish you with the very ground you flee on?"
—Nicol Bolas


"Beware the eager host."
—Eligeth, crossroads augur

"Death is no excuse for disobedience."
—Liliana Vess




"You call it luck. I call it preparation."

Squee's orders basically came down to "attack the squishy parts."

"We sail. We plunder. Then we dance."
They drift in and out of shadow and ever on toward madness.
Baby dragons can't figure out humans—if they didn't want to be killed, why were they made of meat and treasure?
"They never found the body of young Josu, or that of his murderous sister."
—"The Fall of the House of Vess"



"Fleshy, with just a hint of leather. A fine vintage."

They are cautious with their body language and facial expressions. Any stray movement could betray the positions of the troops they protect and cost many lives.
The corruption stirred the heavens above, awaking a shining champion.
Few relics excited Fallaji archaeologists more than Thran powerstones, which they called "eyes of the Old Ones."








"How did I ever let myself get talked into this project?"
—Toothlicker Harj, orcish captain


Exhale, and let the winds carry your soul for all eternity.

"History is a potent weapon."
—Karn, silver golem

Possession is eleven-tenths of the pirate code.
Better the cold night than her warm hospitality.



Humans still feared wolves, though no connection between them and the curse of lycanthropy had ever been proved.



In fire there is the spark of chaos and destruction, the seed of life. In ice there is perfect tranquility, perfect order, and the silence of death.
Perfect justice in service of a perfect will.


All the birds of the skies are the spirit's brood, gathered for safety under its wings.
A vertical scream pierces the night air and echoes doom through the clouds.
"We are recalling all forces from the Takenuma Swamp. We lose men daily to kami attacks, and it seems our defeats only encourage them further."
—General Takeno, letter to Lord Konda

"Who will miss you, drywalker? A wife? A child? Perhaps they will blame the sea for your fate, and teach future generations to stay far away from it."
Shoulder to shoulder until blade must turn against blade.




2015 Vintage Championship Winner
Gremlins are loyal to nothing but their next meal.
"Eldrazi don't die easy. Sometimes they don't die at all."
—Yon Basrel, Oran-Rief survivalist
"I doubt that faeries understand how short their lives are, compared to the rest of us. If they did, would they so readily charge into battle, heedless of the danger before them?"
—Awylla, elvish safewright
"Family plots are so convenient."
—Cabal Patriarch


"This is just my warm-up."
Bant mages still call to the heavens for aid, but angels are not the only ones who answer.


Ish Sah, den of the warlord Geth, commander of countless nim.

"Never tell goblins to 'fire at will.'"
—Urut Barzeel, Mardu hordechief

Thanks to the wolves, Tel-Jilad is the one area of Mirrodin the myr don't see often.
The Multiverse is filled with limitless power just waiting for someone to reach out and seize it.

Art is unknown to the vedalken—for them, all creations must serve a purpose.








The restless geists of common folk often continue their lifelong labors.


"What's your plan?" Gideon asked. "Are you serious?" Chandra replied.
"Defeating an enemy is not nearly as satisfying as watching one suffer."
—The Western Paladin
Dragons of Silumgar's brood begin to digest their prey even before consuming it, letting their caustic breath do much of the work.


"Catch good today. Start replacing crew tomorrow."
—Faysal al-Mousa, fisher captain, log





There are no weapons allowed in the Biblioplex, but a clever mage is never truly defenseless.


"These kids today with their collector numbers and their newfangled tap symbol. Twenty Black Lotuses and twenty Plague Rats. Now that's *real* Magic."



Webs of illusion unravel in the light of truth.




The sky rang with the cries of armored seraphs, and the darkness made a tactical retreat.
Simic mages create redundant backups of their experiments to reduce the consequences of catastrophe.

First the insult, then the injury.
His verdict is always guilty. His sentence is always death.
"O to be a dragon . . . of silkworm size or immense . . ." —Marianne Moore, "O to Be a Dragon"





Each day of their journey, Jandor opened the saddlebags and found them full of mutton, quinces, cheese, date rolls, wine, and all manner of delicious and satisfying foods.


"So many fools think throwing something away is the same as disposing of it."



"Once I saw a goblin shouting at a thunderstorm. He lost the argument pretty quickly."
—Wandering mage

"Need a medic! And some stonemasons!"
—Wyllon, Drannith merchant

The rulers of old Dominaria kept assassins on retainer. However, the true loyalty of these master killers was always to their peers. This elite community survived the fall of the old royal order.

"Born under the sun, the first child will seek the foundation of honor and be fortified by its righteousness."
—Codex of the Constellari
The expedition's end began the marsh's story.

"What are we celebratin' again?"
"We have safe houses in every zone, but you'll never find one without this."

A taut slipknot trigger is the only thing standing between you and standing.
"Greetings, fellow inventors!" the akki shouted, attempting a friendly smile. To her dismay, the greeting was met only with shrieks and alarms being activated.
Reinforcements . . . or refreshments?



One moment, conscious only of a sense of repose. The next moment, hearing the trudge of his own footsteps. He sighed and squinted into the glare ahead.

"Drink from the vein? How provincial."
—Lord Duchorvin

For some of Ghirapur's aerowrights, building thopters is a byproduct of larger construction efforts.
"You will kneel before me, even if I have to split the earth under your feet!"
—Ash Kronor, Keldon warlord

The promise of anguish is payment enough for services rendered.


For the first time in many years, Elspeth asked for help.

"Never subtle nor cryptic is the reckoning of the mighty."
—Mayael the Anima


Empires rise and fall, but evil is eternal.


Generations of genetic weeding have given rise to the deviously cowardly Ironclaw clan.








"The seas are vast, but the skies are even more so. Why be content with one kingdom when I can rule them both?"

He didn't hear the cries of the treefolk whose branches he snapped or of the elves caught underfoot. He had eyes only for the path ahead.
www.MagicTheGathering.com
"Warmth. Safety. A fully-stocked larder. You'll find nothing like Edgewall Keep in the wilds, I promise you that!"
Your discerning eye for value makes you nearly impossible to swindle.
"Duty, honor, and valor are either in your heart or they are not. You will never know for certain until you are tested."
—Ajani Goldmane





Earth elementals have the eternal strength of stone and the endurance of mountains. Primordially connected to the land they inhabit, they take a long-term view of things, scorning the impetuous haste of short-lived mortal creatures.


Leonin folktales claim it was brought from beyond the sky by the first kha.

Lightning reflexes, thunderous might.
"Shadow birthed it. The moon gave it eyes, and the jungle gave it teeth. But it was Death that taught it cruelty."
—Huatli

"You won't be needing this."
The spikes of sangrite made the goblin stronger, but they didn't make him any smarter.

Whenever the Llanowar Elves gather the fruits of their forest, they leave one plant of each type untouched, considering that nature's portion.

It fears no sword and leaves no bones behind.



"You have to admit, Gideon—he has great form."
—Liliana Vess
With or without witnesses, the suns continued their prismatic dance.


"Such rage," thought Vhati, gazing up at the thunderhead from the *Predator*. "It is Greven's mind manifest."



Sigils corrupted by outsiders do not lose their power, only their purity.
An artificer of unparalleled renown, Urza was a powerful cipher even before he was able to planeswalk. Seeing the world as a large, integrated machine is his greatest strength and weakness, enabling him to solve almost any problem but blinding him to his solutions' effects on others.
A few aetherborn have discovered a way to sustain their own existences at the cost of an insatiable hunger for the life essence of other beings.
"...and now they're trying to make a brick wall on my property fight a dinosaur to the death."


Deep in the Northern Mountains, the yaks linger silently, channeling the powers of the earth.

"Speak little. Do much."
When Minamo was abandoned, its younger students found themselves thrust into a war beyond their skill with talents beyond their control.
"I implore you not to forget the horrors of the past. You would have us start the Brothers' War anew!"
—Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi heretic
"The fatal flaw in every plan is the assumption that you know more than your enemy."
—Volrath
"Show your enemies as much mercy as they would show you."
—Surrak, the Hunt Caller
"Rankle's pranks are child's play. My games will topple kingdoms."
"The noble work of our order is to infuse all life on Esper with etherium. Our goal will be reached more rapidly if new life is . . . suppressed."










The secret of destruction is simple: everything burns.
For many years, servant mummies toiled in the mines to extract lazotep. The emergence of the Eternals revealed the sacred substance's true purpose.
"Can't a fella get a moment's peace around here?"
The druid's lifestaff connects her to generations of bygone Sylvok.


If taken, it cuts the hand that clutches it. If given, it heals the hand that holds it.

"We thank the souleaters for melting the sinful that we may be reminded of our own insignificance."
—Drones' hymn of gratitude
If it can't be had here, it can't be had on any world.
A rapid and catastrophic decline.

Jund's dragons hoard only sangrite crystals. Its wurms aren't so picky.


On the open sea, there is nowhere to hide.

There are certain stones even dwarves know to leave in the earth.

"Fear holds no place in faith's battle plan."
"They don't move much, but then again, if you get caught in its web, it has all the time in the world to get to you."
—Saidah, Joraga hunter



Honor the gods of Theros, and they will return the favor.
Even in areas of profound devastation, the hedrons remained intact.
No human eyes have ever witnessed the birth of an apex monster.



The fires of Zendikar are always hungry, and there is much on which they can feed.
"Now everyone knows what you are."

Water calls to water, and the world is left exhausted and withered in its wake.
"We simply cannot tolerate a petty thief among the servants. I'm afraid I'll have to let you go."
—Rog, steward of House Rillyn
From the highest tiers of Dawn's Light Palace to the deepest shade of Wren's Run, the silver notes of the horn shimmer through the air, and all who hear it feel its pull.

"You're in luck. I brought enough to share."
—Chandra Nalaar
Its form never rests, propelled by some undetectable gale from beyond the gloom.

"Your superstitions and mumblings are useless chaff before my righteousness."
He protects the fetid bog from light, life, and the hideous sound of laughter.

"Fire is dead. Water has killed him."
—From *The Stories of Nature*

The cat warriors recognized this Jedit's face, but not his fierce loyalty to Efrava.



"Living or dead, everyone responds to the proper motivation."


"The more our numbers grow, the more I gain hope that Volrath and his cursed stronghold will one day fall."
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
The living is all it eats.

". . . Before honor is humility."
—*The Bible*, Proverbs 15:33

"Remember the fable of the elf who came upon a cave of gold. In trying to free the largest piece, she was crushed by its weight."
—Karn, silver golem
"Metal armor? A poor choice."
The Planar Bridge opened over the Chamber of the Guildpact, reducing the symbol of Ravnica's endurance to rubble.
As a plague ravages the world above, you've made your way into the Underdark in search of a fungal panacea.






With fewer patrols about, Kessig's roads have become prime hunting grounds.
Now vengeance is his sole purpose.

The tide of battle favors those who can swim.




To be Arbiter is to dispense few words and many judgments.



Some Golgari insects live for centuries—and they never stop growing.



"Why do you cower in the darkness, little gnolls? If you would challenge me, step into the light."



Most human scholars believe that Merfolk are the survivors of sunken Atlantis, humans adapted to the water. Merfolk, however, believe that humans sprang forth from Merfolk who adapted themselves in order to explore their last frontier.


"'I have arrived,' bellowed Brawn, and the plane shuddered."
—*Scroll of Beginnings*
"Why squabble for trinkets when we could be living large off all this gold?"
—Admiral Beckett Brass

Bolas cared little when his statue fell, thinking it a useful distraction, underestimating the surge of resolve it gave his opponents.

Most dirtwalkers only know of the vicious merrows that dwell in the shallows. They can't begin to fathom the wickedness that skulks in the Dark Meanders.

A hiss before dying.

The elves' battle cries cut paths through the Æther, guiding those who would stand in Gaea's defense.

In dark times, Truth bears a blade.
"There is elegance in all the Ojutai do—even their killing."
—Kirada, Silumgar enforcer
"Remind me again, what's the going rate for betrayal these days?"
—Captain Rhenmir

Drownyard floods and unnatural frost made the once peaceful boardwalk deceptively treacherous.
The blessing is not the strength itself, but the knowledge of how to use it.
Kor have no concept of exploration. They return to homelands forgotten.




Her children are ever part of her.






As the shards merged, relics once thought mundane regained forgotten powers.
Cao Cao was haunted to death by the ghosts of the empresses and other high courtiers he had murdered.

"I was made for this!"


On Naya, ambition and treachery are scarce, hunted nearly to extinction by the awe owed to terrestrial gods.
"The wish most often granted is the wish to choose one's own destiny."
—*Aethershrine*, inscription


The fall of the evening star never heralds a gentle dawn.
The mind is a beautiful bounty encased in an annoying bone container.



"Please vote with a clear head and vigilant heart, knowing each voice is meaningful regardless of the outcome."
—Ottavio d'Oro, Electoral Committee Speaker of Paliano
The only sound was the gentle clicking of the faeries' wings. Then those intruders who were still standing turned and fled. One thing was certain: they didn't think the Scryb were very funny anymore.
Most knew of the tower's wizard and gargoyle. Few realized which was guardian and which was master.
When the rebels couldn't breach the castle to kill Lalor the Obstinate, they tried a more internal approach to depose the pretender king.


Wipe away the slobber and it's as good as new, give or take a few bite marks.

Warning to those who scale the cliffs without paying tribute: It's a long way down.

"Death fills me and makes me strong. You, it will reduce to nothing."

Sometimes you go to hell, and sometimes hell comes to you.


"In times of war the victors rarely save their best for last."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*

If you think you made it past him alive, he's just teasing you.
The demon's yoke is part leash, part noose.

"What a pity. You should have written it down."
—Liliana Vess
When nothing but second best will do.


Embermages aren't well known for their diplomatic skills.
". . . The world's affairs rush on, an endless stream; / A sky-told fate, infinite in reach, dooms all. . . ."
Even the dead are raw materials for the Phyrexian vision of perfection.

"Monsters dwell in every heart. We only think civilization tames them." ―Euphemia, Nexus watcher
"How could anyone survive this? There is some force at work that stifles even the will to go on."
—Naromin, veteran explorer
"A stick is your friend. A pointed stick is your good friend. An army of pointed sticks is your best friend."
—Onean sergeant
He raged at the world, at his family, at his life. But mostly he just raged.

"I shall seek the Emperor's forgiveness in the darkest places of the night."
—Oath the Penitent
"The jeweler, the potter, the smith . . . They all imbue a bit of their souls into their creations. The kami destroy that crafted mortal shell and absorb the soul within."
—Noboru, master kitemaker

Some vampires resorted to corpse trading after cathars burned their estates and drove them from their ancestral feeding grounds.
"Don't laugh. It works."



He vowed he would never rest until he reached his destination. He doesn't know how right he was.

"The mere sight of our undead allies sickens me. What unholy bargain have you struck?"
—Grizzlegom, to Agnate
"What do you have that I cannot obtain?"
—Mairsil, called the Pretender


"A shrill creature that delights in the misery of others—what's not to love?"
—Braids, dementia summoner
"Nothing in nature goes to waste, not even the rotting corpse of a good-for-nothing, blood-sucking vampire."
—Halana of Ulvenwald
"Dognapping is such an ugly word. I would characterize this as a unilateral redistribution of pets."
It wants only to dress you in silk.
Proud, shrewd, and charismatic, Eladamri has a commitment to his people that is absolute. The guerilla war he wages against Volrath has convinced him that the only way to liberate the Skyshroud elves is to lead *all* Rath's refugees to freedom. So be it.
Rumors float through the city like crows, alighting on citizens seemingly at random.

"[King Mulu's cheetahs] came riding on the winds, charging, with fangs bared and claws flexed."
Its predecessors were etched with the wisdom of ancients; its own etchings bear warnings of a future fraught with war.
"Fear not the behemoth heard from miles away. Fear the stalking felidar, which reveals itself only for the kill."
—Rielle, the Everwise






The more the scarier.
"There's very little that escapes me, Greven. And you will escape very little if you fail."
—Volrath

The magistrate seems to prefer a distorted perspective of reality.




Even the balmgivers of Bant couldn't heal the incurables, but sharing their torment helped.




"We could no more abandon the forest than the stars could abandon the night sky."

"Salvation will not be granted by the Lunarch Council. It must be earned—at the edge of a sword, if necessary."
"Rage is the only freedom left me."
—Greven *il*-Vec



Snaking remnants of nature directed by a body of thought and progress, the oracles embody all that is Simic.

Viashino thrashes keep iguanars as hunting companions, giving them wounded captives as playthings.

"I have seen and heard much here. There are secrets within secrets. Let me show you."
—Takara, to Eladamri
Those who examine the amulet too closely have been known to become part of its ornate carvings.
Initiates live and train with their crop, the unit that begins the trials together.
"Those who seek to upset the balance must be taxed for such ambitions."
—Verithain, mesa high priest
"Only a mind unfettered with the concerns of the flesh can see the world as it truly is."
"This school was founded in secret, operates in secret, and exists for the teaching of secrets. Those who would alter reality must first escape it."
—Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen
"Let those idiot priests tremble! A new era in unlife begins here and now. Oglor, raise the lightning vane!"
—Stitcher Geralf
"Dance, and bring forth the coil! It is an umbilical to Gaea herself, fattening us with the earth's rich bounty."



". . . Three kings no more—Chenliu, Guiming, Anle. / The fiefs and posts must now be filled anew. . . ."
An artificer's experiment in cross-material engineering found its own purpose as an interpreter between cultures.

The elder who carries the ancestral mantle of Jacques le Vert is tasked with his ancient mission: to protect the creatures of Pendelhaven.


Renata led the best hunters in all of Theros on a quest to bring down the terror of the Setessan wilds.
Valuing scholarship above all else, the inhabitants of the Ivory Tower reward those who sacrifice power for knowledge.


"The blood of the enemy is a sacrament. The strength it gives is proof that our cause is just."
A symbol of what Mirrodin once was and hope for what it will be again.
An ever-moving swarm of dust engulfs and disorients anything that comes near.










Worse than the years of aging was the burden of memory. The young monk lost his youth and gained a vicarious lifetime of hardship and woe.
Diluted, moonglove can etch living tissue. Concentrated, a drop will kill a giant.
It leaves its victims one sting closer to phyresis.




"The enlightenment I never found in etherium I have found traced in the coatl's scales."
—Ranalus, vedalken heretic
"When the beast cloaks itself in the mighty oak, what good is a bow? When the oak wraps itself around the snarling beast, what good is a hatchet?"
—Dionus, elvish archdruid
"There is great wisdom in rushing headlong into combat . . . if you're prepared."
—Kenjek, captain of the Thousand Swords



"The people of Akros must learn from our leonin adversaries. If we match their staunch ferocity with our superior faith, we cannot fail."
—Cymede, queen of Akros
"Here on going is heck the what?"
Alythos sat and stared blankly out over the glassy oceans of Nerono, trying in vain to remember what he knew he had forgotten.
"Craghorns experience a wide range of emotions: rage, fury, anger . . ."
—Foothill guide
Without Embereth's courage, the realm would falter and fall.

Without Garenbrig's strength, the realm would succumb to the wilds.
After a while, ships stopped sailing within his reach.
"It was vast, a great sheet of soaring wings, and equally silent. It caught us unawares and blocked our view of the kithkin stronghold."
—Grensch, merrow cutthroat
Caution: Audience in front row may have throats ripped out.
Midwife to mothers and leader to all.

The bonds of the pack transcend time and death.

Merfolk don't always know what they're looking for, but they're certain once they find it.
Without Locthwain's persistence, the realm would stagnate and die.

It lurks in the spaces between moments.
"This cogitator provides a strategic overview of the battlefield. By which I mean, of course, the entire planet."
"May the earth rise up to meet you."
The gems' incandescence invades the dreams of all who see them.
Black dragons revel in the collapse of humanoid kingdoms.

"Learn to see an obstacle from a new perspective. Underneath, for example."
—Chanyi, Ojutai monk
"When the land is angry, so are they."
—Nissa Revane

To those in tune with the Firemind, there is no difference between knowledge and flame.
Part prison, part home.
He's boss because he's smart enough to get out of the way.

"Madness can't touch a mind ignited by genius."
"If a careless elf ends up caught in a spider's web, we must expect nature to take its course. Do not blame the spider for being a spider."
—Dellin Berting, Tolarian entomologist
"Pick not the rotten fruit, but neither touch the best. Leave those as an offering for our unseen guests."
—Radwick, farmer of Gatstaf
On the third night, the villagers destroyed their clocks. The sounds of whirring gears and chiming metal held only dread for them.

"Even the basest creatures may serve a purpose. Still, their lives need be only as long as the paths we tread."
—General Varchild
Though he eventually came to despise Tocasia, Mishra listened well to her lessons on clarity of purpose. Unlike his brother, he focused his mind on a single goal.
"Oh, don't be so dramatic. When your eyes bleed, and your brain leaks out your ears, then we'll talk about lost sanity."
—Braids, dementia summoner



"The angels may have abandoned us, but Ghrin-Danu has not."

When battling the Kolaghan, consider yourself lucky if lightning strikes the same place only twice.
Nails and destruction on point.

"When one of us prospers, the pride prospers."
—Jazal Goldmane
The only prince inside this frog is the one it ate.
The high-pitched whirl of a hook is the only battle cry she needs.
"I am the ferocity of the Burning Sun. I am hide and feather, fang and claw."
As you venture deeper under the boughs of Neverwinter Wood, arrows in a tree trunk suggest you might not be welcome.




It loathes all tastes but two: spells and flesh.
"The land promises nothing and keeps its promise."
—Oracle *en*-Vec





"All the knowledge of Lat-Nam could not protect its sages from the Brothers' War."
—Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen
After Kroog was destroyed while most of its defenders were at his side, Urza vowed that none of his allies would ever need to fear for their own defense again, even while laying siege to a city far from their homes.
With a snap of metal like a strike of lightning, the tide of war shifted in Mishra's favor.
The Boros legionnaire saw a noble sacrifice, the Rakdos thug a blazing suicide, and the Izzet alchemist an experiment gone awry.
"'Do you know, I always thought Unicorns were fabulous monsters, too? I never saw one alive before!' 'Well, now that we have seen each other,' said the Unicorn, 'if you'll believe in me, I'll believe in you.'" —Lewis Carroll



It reacted to Naya's overabundant food supply by growing additional mouths.

The thief doubled back twice, doused herself with perfume, crossed the ocean, and still woke up with her pursuer close on her heels.

When its power is threatened, the council speaks with a unified voice.
The prince consort was happy to let Yotia's coffers fund his extravagant research.

Rishadan barkeeps know something the Mercadians have yet to learn: if you keep pushing, someone will eventually push back.
"Gods don't die. They merely slumber."
—Ayli, Kamsa cleric

"Knowledge is cruel. It will break your heart and test your allegiances. Are you certain you want this curse?"
"Work with zeal as hammers peal! Melt, anneal, and pound the steel!"
—Old Dwarvish forge-chant
Nothing remains of his foes but the gripping story of their downfall.
"The best experiments are those whose successes replicate themselves."
—Yolov, Simic bioengineer
"Ewww!"

"Let's show Vorinclex that progress doesn't always need teeth or claws."
—Malcator, Executor of Synthesis
It stops flying only as its life comes to an end.




"These are your streets. Defend them! This is your neighborhood. Honor it! This is your city. Save it!"
Zndrsplt retired from officiating when she teamed up with Okaun, but she still knows the penalties better than anyone else.
"I am no mere ship's captain. The north wind is my accomplice. The tide is my first mate."
If the eyes are windows to the soul, their souls are not of this world.


"Will history remember this as the day demons arrived or the day saviors arrived?"
—Barrin
Sometimes one fireball isn't enough.

The lineage of Runo Stromkirk is known for producing some of Nephalia's greatest fencing masters.


"Glorifying the will is a mistake. It is simply one more force to be mastered."

The barrier between existence and oblivion is thinner than you know.

Every leaf, tree, and building in Kujar has been placed to achieve maximum harmony, in accordance with the elvish philosophy known as the Great Conduit.


Fire Elementals are ruthless infernos, annihilating and consuming their foes in a frenzied holocaust. Crackling and blazing, they sear swift, terrible paths, leaving the land charred and scorched in their wake.

"I may seem wise to you, but I'm merely a sapling among mighty oaks."








There is no gift more precious or more perilous than fire.
In the tight-knit doun of Mistmeadow, death is less important than duty.
"I swear, I just wanted a few extra hours to do my homework!"
—Petro, novice chronomancer

"Learning to imitate a master is the first step in becoming one."
—Uvilda, Prismari dean
Infinite possibilities contained in a finite space.
"You have an unhealthy attachment to your selfhood. I can help you with that."
—Malcator, Executor of Synthesis
Hate is an everlasting wellspring from which it is eternally sustained.

"The seedling you save today may be the sheltering boughs of generations to come."
"It's Snapdax. You'd have a better chance of breaching a wall with a slice of bread."
—Krek, daysquad captain
"Angels and inquisitors terrorize villages, but no one seems to notice the stirring out at sea."





Noggles live purely by what they can scavenge. There is not a single thing a noggle eats, wears, or uses that did not once belong to another.


Thick of muscle, stout of heart, and possessing a burning love of justice and the battlefield, the Ordruun minotaurs are the foundation of the Boros Legion.



"There's no more time for secluded study. Answers are there only for those with the courage to take them."
Like pools of fog that hid treacherous rocks from sailors' eyes, so too were the hands of the kami.



"There is no worse enemy. His passion for death doesn't just border on insanity, it wallows in it."
—The Southern Paladin

"I know its lightness, for I have seen it fly. I know its weight, for I have seen it strike."
—Brigone, soldier of Meletis






"With the frequent mutations, predator-prey relationships seem to change every moment. I already like it here."
—Vivien Reid



"When the door drops, give them a haste of the Emperor's fire!"
—Commissar Yarrick
To walk its streets is to burn in its beauty.
Relics of the Order of the Ebon Hand, the bowl and dagger bespeak the hideous cruelty of its rituals.
She is the apex of the artificer's craft, the spirit of the divine called out of base metal.
Though many think of Wolves as solitary predators, they are actually extremely social animals. During a hunt they often call to each other, which can be quite unsettling for their prey.
He had heard rumors of the cities—the constant noise, the stagnant air, the tainted water—and he had no wish to learn if they were true.

"Anybody want some . . . *toast*?"
—Jaya Ballard, task mage

Weakness is not in the nature of the Swarm.
"The Eternals had to endure Amonkhet's five trials. Let's see if they can pass the Trial of Ravnica."
—Jace Beleren

"I bring word from Gaea. Fight on! She will never allow her children to die alone."


"There hasn't been an original thought on Vesuva in centuries."
—Emmest, Tolarian chronicler


"Expect nothing but scorn, flattery, and lies. And never turn your back on him."
—The Northern Paladin


"Even the threat of power has power."
—Jeska, warrior adept
If insects could talk, the world would be deafened.
"When history becomes too mournful, even good souls may choose to forget."
—Shalai, voice of Plenty

"Guaranteed to leave your enemies sufficiently stabbed, bitten, cleaved, or exploded."
—Grezkrick's Emporium motto



Was it just lonely, or was some form of evolution inevitable?
"Her voice is damnation, unyielding and certain."
—Phage the Untouchable
"Those ogres who did not embrace oni worship were cast out, cursed, and forced into hermitage, waiting for the day the oni would come for them."
—*The History of Kamigawa*
Changelings cannot resist the draw of a new shape, even if doing so would be in their best interests.
It spilled the blood of one elder dragon. In Gideon's hands, it may yet taste another's.
Day after day he sat there, knowing that the Wanderer would soon be back for him.
Imprisonment teaches revenge. Hobbling teaches resignation.
"I regret feeding Kaervek's hunger for power—far better to live with animals innocent of such ambitions."
—Jolrael

Sensing a plot, Sorin raced to his grandfather's resting-crypt. But someone else had gotten there first.



"For its time as a mortal, Anger chose a shell of boiling rock."
—*Scroll of Beginnings*
Light poured from every crack as the sleepers awoke from their long stone slumber.

The Sun Empire's cities are built from the bones of the earth.


"Most faeries are harmless pranksters. Every now and again, though, you get one that crosses over from mischievous to malicious."
—Gaddock Teeg
Tireless and merciless, shades are harnessed as spies by the Dimir.
It comes off as easily as your own skin.


"We could feel the Shaman's power, as surely as we felt the storm."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry
He raged at the world, at his family, at his life. But mostly he just raged.

"Not again!"


"Must not all things at the last be swallowed up in death?" —Plato
Its secrets once wrought the greatest artifice ever known. Now crabs loot the rubble to decorate their shells.

Designed by Justin Gary

"This sword has many names. You may call it 'Death.'"
—Kaldor Draigo, Supreme Grand Master of the Grey Knights

Its wings shimmer with dreams absorbed from its enemies.






The shaman rattles not to inspire a battle fury but to drown out the shrieks of those fleeing the Eldrazi.
Though lifeless, the Skull still possessed a strange power over the flow of magic.


Urza dared to attack Phyrexia. Slowly, it retaliated.
It can hear a panicked heartbeat from a thousand paces away.


"True strength is in the mind, for the body is too malleable a form."
—Politus, vedalken emisar

She answers the call of the Crave, the desire for battle sated only by bloodshed.

". . . 'First take Jingzhou, next the Riverlands; / On that rich region, base your own royal stand.' . . ."
Words describing it fail. Pages relating it shrivel. Tales recounting it end.
Like most giant monsters villagers worship as gods, it proves a fickle master.
"In our war Heliod gave mortals some favor, yet other times he withheld aid. Are we still no more than game pieces to him?"
—Polyxene the Doubter
"Yes, I think 'toast' is an appropriate description."
—Jaya Ballard, task mage
"When the air burns, only death breathes deep."
—Bogardan mage
"I waded through a river of fire to bring death to Bretagard."

The first satyr to wake after a revel must search for the site of the next one.
As their supplies of etherium dwindled, mechanists sent gargoyles farther and farther afield in search of salvage.
"He displays a perverse charisma fueled by avarice. Highly dangerous. Recommend civil sanctions."
—Agmand Sarv, Azorius hussar
"Nature is the ultimate mindless destroyer, capable of power and ferocity no army can match, and the Gruul follow its example."
—Trigori, Azorius senator

They talk a good fight.


"Here in Fyndhorn, the goddess Freyalise is generous to her children."
—Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order

A unicorn chooses only the most virtuous and noble of knights to be its companion.



"It's all about who you know, darling. And now you're lucky enough to know me."


"It was big. Really, really big. No, bigger
No, more. Look, we're talking krakens and
The dwarves call their quicksilver techniques "improvisational weaponsmithing."


Where nature impedes, Phyrexians overcome.



With each honor he earns, Gideon paves the path to his redemption.

As the bounty on Massacre Girl rose, so did the number of imitators.
When the task spilled over into undeath, he stopped calling it his life's work.



"Now is not the time for your light to fade."

Some take after their father, Stone, some after their mother, Fire.
Centuries ago, a pyromancer's spark ignited a fiery conflagration.
Until Emeria is freed, he raises his sword in her name.
Dry grass is tinder before the spark.

Her light touches every corner and her wings brush either wall, leaving no place for evil to lurk.
Fangren spur may sound louder, but Viridian resurgents claim that the horn of the vorrac creates a truer, more inspiring note.
"Stay away from my friends!"
Though Volrath is long dead, the slivers have become everything he wanted them to be: mindless instruments of destruction and despair.
Nothing evens the odds like a little lightning.

Few of Rath's rivers follow a steady course, so many new channels are carved for them.

Swarms thrive in its nest, feeding on leathery bits of discarded wing.

"Not only a wrecking ball, but a trendsetter in its own right."
—Crocodile Jackson, legendary cowboy
"I've never *heard* growth before."
—Gowon, Femeref herder
It begins as a whisper and ends with the red roar of fire.

Each flower identical, every leaf and petal disturbingly exact.
Goblins, like snowflakes, are only dangerous in numbers.


"Ach! Hans, run! It's the lhurgoyf!"
—Saffi Eriksdotter, last words
"Where do you run when the earth becomes your enemy?"
—Naimah, Femeref philosopher



Many necromancers share the same last words—the ones that conclude the undeath ritual.

Toward the end, Gatha struggled to keep his experiments in and his patrons out.
These days, some wizards are finding that they have a little too much spell left at the end of their mana.
Moonstones grant limited foresight but unlimited advantages.

"We leonin have come to rule the plains by taking to the skies."
—Raksha Golden Cub


A precious shell without, a delicious taste within.


"Yawgmoth's corpse is a wound in the universe. His foul blood seeps out, infecting the land with his final curse."
—Lord Windgrace





The Quietus Cult holds their grim ceremonies in the dark places where unburied dead litter the ground.

First in his clan to attend Strixhaven, and now first in his class.




"But then . . . oh, but . . . which means . . . which would lead to . . . exactly!"
"The specimen seems to be broken."

The familiar's fangs deliver the master's bite.
Myra bought beetles because they were cheaper than rubber ducks. Now the infestation is her largest expense.
"What has been looted can be restored. The church lives on within us."


Whether trained, ridden, or eaten, few goblin military innovations have rivaled the bug.
"Sorin, I'm going to take everything from you."
"Retribution is best delivered by claws and rage, with both magnified."
—Ajani
2011 Legacy Championship Winner

"I'm not running away! I'm figuring out the best routes."
Nothing stops industry in Ravnica—certainly not the safety of its workers.


It emits a stinking cloud composed of millions of nascent microscopic organisms, each possessing a fragment of predatory sentience.


"Lungs full of sea air and a hold full of loot. Ah, what a life!"

"The first birth celebrates life. The second birth mocks it."
—Mystic elder


The storm rages and the earth breaks.
Renata led the best hunters in all of Theros on a quest to bring down the terror of the Setessan wilds.

"If you'd been there, you would've run from that deer, too!"
—Jaya Ballard, Task Mage



"We've been taught that strength is everything. So how can an alliance with the strongest be a betrayal?"
She is the apex of the artificer's craft, the spirit of the divine called out of base metal.

As the blaze raced toward her, Syr Ameril closed her eyes and pictured Castle Ardenvale so her last thoughts would be of home.

The impact sent the soldiers scattering—then something came out of the crater.
Anarchy comes in many forms: social, individual, Gruul . . .

They whisper of an ancient hero who saved the dragons of their world.

Those who question Ojutai may not like the answers they receive.
In troubled times, there are few greater sorrows than a wayward savior.
An emblem of a secret guild, the Dimir insignia is seen only by its own members-and the doomed.

Proud Alkmenos, who would not bow to Erebos in death, is now bowed by his own hubris for all eternity.





"Oh, you fellas are going to love the lockup. Excellent gruel. Very low ceilings."
—Libuse, Boros sergeant
Some ravens collect shiny baubles; others hoard omens and secrets.
"Maybe we can trap them with bait," thought Tahngarth, eyeing Squee.




A fallen viscerid's only tribute is to be worn by a comrade.
The limbs of Pendelhaven extend as far as the meek roam, and reach as high as they strive.
To a trained warrior, there is scarcely a more potent weapon than patience.
Fruits for friends, fists for foes.

Denizens of the wilds don't always seek to harm intruders. Sometimes they simply misplace them.
"So many choices. Shall I choose loathing, hate, or malice today?"
—Eliza of the Keep


Once favored companions, many cats were left to fend for themselves.
"The other guilds will learn the hard way not to interfere with our investigations."
—Bori Andon, Izzet blastseeker
"You wish for me to cow your enemies? I can do better than that . . . ."
—Teferi, second-level student
Attracting a dragon's attention may be the last mistake you make.



Born of volcanic forces, it thrives on the absolute panic it inspires.
"This area is off-limits to you."
"The worst thing about being a mercenary for the Ebon Hand is having to wear a dead Thrull."
—Ivra Jursdotter



"The tyrannous and bloody deed is done,
The most arch deed of piteous massacre
That ever yet this land was guilty of."
—William Shakespeare, *Richard III*
The portal opens not to the past, but from it. Those who step through discover an unimaginable future.
"The amber sun smokes with fury, gazing on foes that gather like ants invading our home. We are ready! Blade and claw strike as one."
—Huatli



Its brilliant plumage painted streaks of color across a sky long darkened by war.
"Ogres taunt the dragons by moving into their territory, but even the hellkites find them too much trouble to hunt."
—Marza, mountain scout

"To those who can hear it, Gaea's battle song brings power as swift as sunlight and as enduring as the deep roots of the forest."
—Gamelen, Citanul elder
"Once I supply the breeze, you'll see your warriors for the smoke they truly are."
—Alexi, zephyr mage
"May our blessings sever the tongues of the forsaken."
—Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite

"Hop away now, little Eternal. Go eat some flies."
—Kasmina

Having conquered the Bastion of Suns, the Ota took its light for their own.
Slain orochi warriors were buried with a tree sapling so they would become a part of the forest after death.
The touch of death is never gentle.
"One alone is fearsome; one among many is unstoppable."
—Benalish proverb




In a rare display of ingenuity, the Orcs invented an incredibly destructive weapon. Most Orcish artillerists are those who dared criticize its effectiveness.




Many kami could fly, which put some warriors at a distinct disadvantage. The mages of Minamo took it upon themselves to correct that imbalance.

"Let nothing own the skies but the wind."
—Dejara, Giltwood druid



"Living scarecrows make a mockery of the natural order. Dead ones make fine hats."

"It's a truly disconcerting sight to see their shadows cast upon the deck."
—Captain Triff
"Your potential to commit a crime warrants further investigation."
"Why does everything the Golgari touch end up sticky?"
—Arrester Lavinia, Tenth Precinct

The Champion stood alone between the horde of the Returned and the shrine to Karametra, cutting down scores among hundreds. She would have been overcome if not for the aid of the temple guardians whom Karametra awakened.
—*The Theriad*
Find your center, and you will find your way.
Its secrets once wrought the greatest artifice ever known. Now crabs loot the rubble to decorate their shells.

"While, like a ghastly rapid river, Through the pale door, A hideous throng rush out forever, And laugh—but smile no more." —Edgar Allan Poe, "The Haunted Palace"
"Sometimes I snare the unexpected, but I know its purpose will be revealed in time."

The soldiers chopped and chopped, and still the great tree stood, frowning down at them.
Olka collected the evening mist for years, studying its secrets. Once she learned its essence, she could vanish with a thought.
"It's nice to see a sister Dwarf in a position of such power, but why'd it have to be one of those seafaring muleheads?"
—Halina, Dwarven Trader

"It was a strange morning. When we awoke, we found our trees transformed. We didn't know whether to water them or polish them."
—Pulan, Bant orchardist
First discovered in ancient Netheril, chardalyn stones absorb and hold magical energy, enabling constructs to be infused with fearsome power and unnatural malice.

"I search for a vision of Zendikar that does not include the Eldrazi."
—Expedition journal entry
Inner strength is never seen until it makes all the difference.

"All attempts to halt the machine failed. We must find a way to repurpose it."
—Consulate engineer's log
While it possesses potent venom, the Giant Spider often chooses not to paralyze its victims. Perhaps the creature enjoys the gentle rocking motion caused by its captives' struggles to escape its web.
Success is largely a matter of knowing which lever to pull.
"It misses nothing and it has no sense of humor."
—Barvisa, courtroom scribe
"He kept generations whole before the Kami War, and now he turns his century of wisdom to healing the latest casualties."
—Eight-and-a-Half-Tails



"Life's greatest lessons don't come from focus or concentration. They come from breathing and simply noticing."
—Seton, centaur druid

"Having conviction is more important than being righteous."
—Aurelia







"Those who incur Thassa's anger will be swallowed whole by her waves, or torn asunder by her bident."
—Thrasios, triton hero

A master of tactics, the Lord of Atlantis makes his people bold in battle merely by arriving to lead them.
The crawler doesn't care what gets in its way. It pushes everything into the boiling muck and waits for the meal to cook.

In a culture of beauty, the most beautiful are worshipped as gods.

"Life for life. The cost is always the same."
"Blast it, not again!"







To condemn the innocent you must first condemn yourself.
—Civic Guild maxim
"Sometimes the only difference between a martyr and a hero is a sword."
—Captain Sisay, *Memoirs*


"There are so many of them. It seems they've just been waiting for someone to serve."
There is no world where angels fear to tread.
In every tree, a restless spirit.
"The shadow travels toward the apex. I predict we will soon see the true measure of darkness."



"The awestruck birds gazed at Wonder. Slowly, timidly, they rose into the air."
—*Scroll of Beginnings*

"We must rely on our own knowledge, not on the dogma of the seekers or the mutterings of the sphinxes."
—Tullus of Palandius
Rumors quickly spread among thieves about a labyrinth without walls and a prize beyond all measures of worth.
Its diet consists of fruits, plants, small woodland animals, large woodland animals, woodlands, fruit groves, fruit farmers, and small cities.
After Gideon cleansed the Ninth District, none of the ganglords challenged the Boros.
"The first griffins were made by the gods to capture falling stars; they were given the keenest eyes and the swiftest wings, and sent to keep watch above the clouds."
—*The Cosmogony*


The one thing the Gatewatch didn't expect to find on a plane ruled by Nicol Bolas was perfection.
"The past is buried for good reason."
"Your life is a blinding light, your breath a gale, your pulse a deafening drum. Be still. Be still."
—Dahlya Trul, "Irbitov Lament"

A mudflow swallowed the lowlands years ago. All that remains are a bottomless mire and an endless rain of ash.




"For all the priceless tomes they have destroyed, one would think they would taste better."
—Davvol, Evincar of Rath







"In our hands, the natural world finds more beauty than nature alone could ever provide."


Threefold were his crimes, doubled were his pleas, singular was his fate.





Goblins journey to the sacrificial peaks in pairs so that the rare survivor might be able to relate the details of the other's grisly demise.
Fallen enemies are fed to the scavengers. Fallen friends are thrown into the Great Furnace, their souls returned to the Great Mother.
"There's nothing quite as satisfying as delivering a good kick to the face."
—Adrasteia, Akroan captain


"Please, come in! Hors d'oeuvres are on the table."


The storms of Tarkir awaken more than dragons.
Honor the brave who fought,
Honor the dead who fell,
Honor the world they saved.
—Memorial inscription

"A perfect reflection of its world: brutal, fetal, and lacking truth."
—Oracle *en*-Vec



Keep watch only for the giants and you'll be eaten by the ants.
"May knowledge be our sanctuary."
—Yora, academy researcher


"They'll soon become accustomed to wearing skin that is not their own."
—Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite




"Ah, to be young again."
—Olivia Voldaren
"A basilisk's gaze is effective, but disposing of physical remains is a tiresome task. It's far more discrete to dissolve one's victim entirely."
—Szadek
He exercises his right to bear arms.
The deep sleep of winter is not always restful.
When Kaya saved her village, Berit realized even vampires could be killed. When she brought one down herself, she realized she had found her calling.
Tel-Jilad, sanctum of the ancient trolls, keepers of the secret of Mirrodin's origin.

"The awestruck birds gazed at Wonder. Slowly, timidly, they rose into the air."
—Scroll of Beginnings
Its screeching is the sound of you losing your mind.
"Perfection is elusive. Let us try again."



"A rakalite core paired with a powerstone matrix has significantly increased the healing effects of my original amulet designs."
—Urza, research notes
The mouth must be pried open before rigor mortis sets in. Otherwise the returning soul can find no ingress.



"For us, a rope represents the ties that bind the kor. For you, it's more literal."
"I like to think Kytheon keeps watch over all of us."
He vowed he would never rest until he reached his destination. He doesn't know how right he was.
"My doors are called trespassing, my signatures, forgeries. They don't respect my talents, and I don't respect their labels."
The enraptured audience barely noticed their programs were suddenly blank.
"Kjeldor must be supreme at any cost."
—Avram Garrisson, leader of the Knights of Stromgald
Having lost their minds, they now want yours.


The shaman rattles not to inspire a battle fury but to drown out the shrieks of those fleeing the Eldrazi.
For the Gruul, bone-crushing rage is the first priority. Accuracy comes in a distant ninetieth.
The Izzet quickly suspended their policy of lifetime guarantees.
The spoils of war are not measured only in gold and silver.

"This is your only warning, alchemist. The secrets of the sea are not yours to behold. Lord Krothuss will not be so merciful next time."
—Runo Stromkirk
"The Westfolk wept, and their tears wore winding rivers into the cheek of the world."
—Glem the Lonebard, "Origins of Kholon"
"All pilots and prototypes destroyed. Extensive collateral damage inflicted. Conclusion: flawless design."
—*Manual of Melek*


"All are welcome in the angels' light."
After breaking free from the Riptide Project, the slivers quickly adapted to life on Otaria—much to the dismay of life on Otaria.
"The seas are vast, but the skies are even more so. Why be content with one kingdom when I can rule them both?"







"I think I cracked a fang."


The death of the party.

"This was quite possibly the least pleasant occurrence on the entire expedition."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry


Design leads to progress.


Her poppets bring joy to the truly depraved.
"Don't spend long examining signs of its passage. That you find them at all means it's still close at hand."
—Varra, Warden of the East Road


The star performer of the Juri Revue, his shows have fans and blood spilling into the street.

When defeat is near and guidance is scarce, all eyes look in one direction.
Some say the knowledge lost during the Ritual of Rebuking is returned through the well's waters.



"From up here we can drop rocks and arrows and more rocks!" "Uh, yeah boss, but how do we get down?"



They wait in darkened depths, laughing eagerly.



"Heroism is neither a strong arm nor a divine destiny. It is the choice to stand unbowed against impossible odds."
He will be your loyal champion, and his pack your protectors. All he asks for is a full belly, a spot by the fire, and all the love in your heart.
It tears the flesh from your bones and then swallows the ash with its fiery maw.

"Spreading flames illumined cloud and sea: Cao Cao went down; 'twas Zhou Yu's victory."


Tales of your great deeds follow you no matter how far you travel from your hometown.
"So even the heart of our world has succumbed."
—Koth of the Hammer

An arrow from Nylea's bow never fails to find its mark.
"Hold on to your ideals. They'll be tested more than your armor or the edge of your blade."
—Tajic





The parts are as strong as the whole.

"Frankly, destruction is best left to professionals."
—Jaya Ballard, task mage
"Once more into Devil's Breach, soldiers. I want another devil tail for my collection."


"The earth shook, the sky rained fire, and it seemed the world was ending."
—Benalish refugee


Sunhome—the stalwart shield, the towering sentinel, the seat of justice.

"A rift opened, and our arrows were abruptly stilled. To move was to push the world. But the sliver's claw still twitched, red wounds appeared in Thed's chest, and ribbons of blood hung in the air."
—Adom Capashen, Benalish hero
The Soul of the World has returned.


"I never thought I'd spend my life fighting. I'm a maker, not a destroyer."
It fears no sword and leaves no bones behind.




Glory surged through her and radiance surrounded her. All things were possible with the blessing of the Divine.

One piercing stare usually convinces thieves to go elsewhere.
"They had it coming."
—Squire Imalia, savior of Thiswick



"Some trade in goods, some in secrets. My soul has walked the futures, and I offer the rare coin of possibility."


"Yavimaya is one being—one vastness of rippling leaves, one deepness of roots, and one chatter of animals—of which I am one part."
Though the Luxa River brings life to Naktamun, it's not without dangers.
The wise pay as much attention to what they throw away as to what they keep.



A true puppet master has no need for strings.
Rarely at rest on the Amber Throne, Anafenza always leads the Abzan Houses to battle.

Even among the hardiest warriors of the Temur, loxodons are respected for their adaptation to the mountain snows.


Any being that harms them quickly learns its lesson.
"It's so cute when it's sleeping, isn't it? Actually, it's still as abhorrent as ever, but at least it's not trying to kill us."
—Noyan Dar, Tazeem lullmage


"The most unexpected weapon that a monster can wield is kindness."
—*Tales of the Ozolith*
"Death—an outmoded concept. We sleep, and we change."
—Sitrik, birth priest
"The goblins are in charge of maintenance? Why not just set it on fire now and call it a day?"
—Whip Tongue, viashino technician
The flame of anger is hard to douse once lit.


"Fair? At what point in our negotiations did you convince yourself my goal was to be fair?"
"We won't sit like lazy gob-slugs waiting for death to come to us. We'll bring death, shiny sharp, to our enemies."
—Krenko, mob boss
"Until I've gnawed their flesh and exterminated their clans, my humiliation will not be effaced."
—Liu Bei, on the death of his oath-brother Guan Yu

"When you're a goblin, you don't have to step forward to be a hero—everyone else just has to step back!"
—Biggum Flodrot, goblin veteran


The mysterious purpose of two of the rings had eluded Esper mages—until now.
Zur remained aloof from Terisiare's suffering, intent only on his own perfection.


After countless attacks on the Salt Road where it passes through the frozen tundra, the Abzan began to refer to the area as Atarka territory rather than Temur lands.
"Have you ever killed insects nibbling at your crops? I think that's what the Eldrazi believe they're doing to us."
—Sheyda, Ondu gamekeeper


"By all rights we should have perished in the Kami War. Our perseverence is a tribute to mortal ingenuity. And perhaps a few forgotten secrets found in the nick of time."

"I believe many worlds will bow to Phyrexia. Mirrodin is merely the first."
—Sheoldred, Whispering One
After the Battle of Liet Field, the white sun crested above Taj-Nar, bringing hope to all who survived the carnage.



"The higher the mind soars, the greater its understanding of the law."
—Isperia


"The Guard will forever stand ready. For them, death is merely an inconvenience, not an ending."
—Chaeska, Keeper of Tresserhorn
It is like life and destiny: we think we know the story, but we have read only half the tale.

Some spirits mourn. Others terrorize.
It is an expert at culling individuals who stray too far from the herd.
For some reason, goblin fighting school isn't as crowded on day two.
As their supplies of etherium dwindled, mechanists sent gargoyles farther and farther afield in search of salvage.
"We must all push through the pain to heal our world."
—Ayli, Kamsa cleric
"To create the first Thrulls, I only introduced alchemic elements into the Order's necromancy; Tourach's principles remained unchanged."
—Endrek Sahr, Master Breeder
When the Mirran resistance arrived, the furnace dwellers looked to Urabrask for guidance. His decree stunned the others: "Let them be."




"See, the land itself raises an altar to the ascendancy of nature."
—Mayael the Anima
Every leaf, tree, and building in Kujar has been placed to achieve maximum harmony, in accordance with the elvish philosophy known as the Great Conduit.
Some don't know his face, but his pets are a dead giveaway.



"You are one of the few to whom we offer our blessing. What fool would reject immortality?"
—Runo Stromkirk
On Innistrad, Liliana embraced necromancy, honing her powers by practicing on scores of undead—and sometimes the living.



"O! it is excellent/ To have a giant's strength, but it is tyrannous/ To use it like a giant." —William Shakespeare, *Measure for Measure*




"The predator knows the true way of the world. Life is conflict. Only the strong survive."
—Garruk Wildspeaker

"One day you, too, shall drink the blood of your foes. It is something to look forward to."
—Toothlicker Harj, Orcish Captain


Goblins' eager curiosity leads them to scavenging, petty theft, and the rigging of sleek pirate ships. Some stop at scavenging.
The most nimble of creatures, it chases the most sacred luminence.
When dealing with goblins, if it isn't nailed down, it's headed your way.
As the elves learned the hymns of angels, the knights learned the roars of titans.
"Sir, I just thought . . . ," explained Vhati. "Don't think," interrupted Greven. "It doesn't suit you."




His friends at the gym never knew Garanth's secret shame. For years he had tried to walk away from professional arm wrestling, but hey—free monkeys.

Where dragons' breath once burned, their bones now freeze.

"Let's see my brother's stitched-up little toys compete with this."
—Ghoulcaller Gisa


A thin shell lies between the roc and a world of bite-sized treats.
Its respiration is your expiration.
"It's the last thing we can call our own."
—Minhu, Mirran resistance
Jund's thallids tried to disguise their deliciousness by covering themselves in spines harvested from the tukatongue tree.

Her gaze prevents the petty sins and her sword punishes the rest.
Accept one favor from an ouphe, and you're doomed to accept another.
The endless grind of the Brothers' War had fouled Terisiare's land and blackened its skies. Argoth's defenders were determined to protect their isle from the same fate.

"You may enter the city—once the toll is paid."
"The flies were bothering me."
—Jalira, master polymorphist

"Blood is too precious a thing in these days of dishonourable peace."
Keldons may be outnumbered, but they are never outmatched.





The vast network of predation on Jund has actually caused some strange creatures to adapt to being eaten.
In Rakdos-controlled neighborhoods, everyone is part of the show.
He wears his scars like badges of honor, warning his foes that he's not easily defeated.




"I have never before felt so unwelcome in a forest."
—Jolrael



Small words stoke large flames.
In times when freedom seems lost, great souls arise to reclaim it.
It grew in lands lit by pride and watered by tears.
"I trained with the Ghitu, and I respect the fire as they do."


"Some believe Sandstalkers to be illusions; those with scars know better."
—*Zhalfirin Guide to the Desert*

Its claws cut faster than a flame flickers.
"First they fight, then they sleep, then they dream. And finally I receive my reward."

The elves had entered a land like an open grave-an act of fortitude or folly?
"Etherium is limited. Innovation is not."
—Tezzeret
"You gotta be pretty smart to live long as me, but not being able to die helps."
"Impossible! How could they overwhelm us? We had barricades, war elephants, … and they were barely a tenth of our number!"
—General Avitora
While the realm has laws, in the wilds there are other ways of balancing power.



Asked how it survived a run-in with a bog imp, the pegasus just shook its mane and burped.






"We've endured your slights to Gaea with the grace of tolerance. Now behold the grace of our ferocity."
"The Keldons may have explosive tempers, but *I* have explosives."
"The Origin Query will wait. We must ensure we survive to return to it."
—Pelyus, vedalken ordinar

Moss-covered statues littered the area, a macabre monument to the Basilisk's power.



"I swear the clouds were created just so the drakes would have a place to lurk."
—Kasharri, skyknight


Within silent clearings guarded by living palisades, the natural world guards its most precious secrets.

Zombies mourn for the living and celebrate those who will soon be given the gift of death.
Their arrows are tipped with basilisk eyes and fletched with cockatrice feathers.

"Honorable tactics are for honorable foes. These werewolves are preying on innocent travelers. I'll stab them in the back while they sleep if I have to."
The most terrifying thing about the Craw Wurm is probably the horrible crashing sound it makes as it speeds through the forest. This noise is so loud it echoes through the trees and seems to come from all directions at once.
The scouring sands of Shefet polish its carapace, and the ranks of the cursed fill its belly.

MORE TO LOVE: Friendly, nature-loving, Bunyonesque SEM seeks SEF looking for a huge commitment. . . . seeks atog prince

When it walked, it altered geography. When it bellowed, it changed the weather.
The tiger is always quick to fold.


The Thran's machines were not dead after all, merely dormant . . . and waiting.

"What worked to bring down angels will do the same for these horrors."
—Rem Karolus, Slayer of Eldrazi
"Meet my newest minion. Come now, don't be shy—shake her pincer."
Druids hold certain plants to be sacred and use their leaves and wood as a spellcasting focus.





"Hopefully Ravnica will prove harder to break."
—Karn

"'I'm certain that the fate of Markov Manor is connected to these cryptoliths . . .' This Tamiyo was on to something."





"It's hard to say which is more satisfying: the search for that missing piece or fitting that piece into place."
—Evo Ragus



"The worthy shall respect the worthy. In the afterlife, all will stand united."
—Monument inscription




"That was perhaps the most terrifying thing I thought I almost saw."
—Captain Lannery Storm
Things buried on Innistrad rarely seem to stay that way.
"Dear brother, it's sweet that you have chosen to share your toys with Ludevic, but I too have found some new playmates."
—Ghoulcaller Gisa
Possession is eleven-tenths of the pirate code.

"It is finished. Now the real work can begin."
—Tezzeret
"When everything hangs on a single moment, be sure you choose the right moment."
—Jace Beleren
"A wisp of life remains in the undergloom of Death: a visible form, though no heart beats within it."
—Homer, *The Iliad*, trans. Fitzgerald

"Brute force can sometimes kick down a locked door, but knowledge is a skeleton key."
The best way to calm a rampaging ceratok is to wait until it dies of natural causes.

"If they can't take the hail, they'd better stay home."
—Arna Kennerüd, Skycaptain

"Just a collage of images: cryptoliths, the sea, a tangle of shipwrecks."
As the bridge snapped, Berko was sure he heard the swamp laughing at him.
To gaze under its hood is to invite death.


Flamekins' fires burn cool until they decide otherwise.
"The air is sweet with the taste of your fear."



There's no better defense than simply being out of reach.

Faeries are easily offended and quick to exact a quirky revenge.
"We decide who is worthy of our works."
—Gix, Yawgmoth praetor
"The best way to keep a secret is to forget it."
—Lazav



Skepticism fades in the face of the miraculous.
"Omens lie in this early harvest's fruit."
—Asmira, Holy Avenger


The carnage of conflicts long past still stains the Otarian soil.
"The final stage of the illness: delirium, convulsions, and death."
—Phyrexian progress notes
Its spear has no shaft, its shield no handle.
Condor's flight augurs sleepless night.
—Skyshroud proverb
Turns out coffee is the weird aunt of invention.


"The faith of Serra is borne on wings of hope."
—Gulsen, abbey matron
Valuing scholarship above all else, the inhabitants of the Ivory Tower reward those who sacrifice power for knowledge.
"Quintorius, would you care to explain why you didn't complete your homework?"
—Augusta, Lorehold dean


Kapsho merfolk have infiltrated fortresses as remote as the desert citadel in Sunari in their relentless quest for arcane knowledge.
"That's odd. I don't remember seeing plans to dig a trench near here."
—Lognell, Argivian scout
The fatal flaw in every plan is the assumption that you know more than your enemy.
"Keep your pace steady through the haze, lest you step on the heels of your future self or trip the self a moment behind you."
—Teferi


Gods can be appeased. Demons, however . . .

"The land grows only where the kami will it."
—Dosan the Falling Leaf
Sun Empire warriors are taught to emulate the fearless raptors that fling themselves against towers of horn and muscle a hundred times their size.
A bargain in Keyhole Downs is always too good to be true.
"Let all witness the fate of those who defy me."
—Crovax
The cathars arrived at the abandoned lab to find many of the unfinished projects gnawing on one another.
The wastelands disorient even the most experienced scouts, making them easy prey for Kozilek's drones.
"Kjeldorans should rule supreme, and to the rest, death!"
—Avram Garrisson, Leader of the Knights of Stromgald
Generations of genetic weeding have given rise to the deviously cowardly Ironclaw clan. To say that Orcs in general are vicious, depraved, and ignoble does not do justice to the Ironclaw.
"Truth shines even in darkness. Those who march on the side of truth walk always in righteous light."


There is no wall that can't be improved by making it taller.




"Keeping order is a task too important to relinquish in death."
—Abrado, Custodi priest


Mogglings have been known to play ball with hibernating slivers, completely unaware of their true nature.

Her opponent threw her through the window, so she retaliated by throwing the window through her opponent.
Novice shopkeeps spend hours deciding how best to display their wares. Veterans focus on portability.
2014 Vintage Championship Winner

Golgari reclaimers resent the gorgons, begrudging the loss of so many fine nutrients locked away in stone.
Some machines refuse to accept their own obsolescence.



His peers derive knowledge from ancient tomes locked within dark spires. He finds knowledge within the solitude of a lifetime spent watching the Quicksilver Sea.
Nothing is sacred to the rats. Everything is simply another meal.
Nothing burns hotter than the fires of holy rage.
"We're going to need a bigger gate."
—Bowen, Barrenton guardcaptain
"They groaned, they stirred, they all uprose, Nor spake, nor moved their eyes; It had been strange, even in a dream, To have seen those dead men rise."
—Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"

"The Cloud Nacatl sit and think, a bunch of soft paws. We are the Claws of Marisi, stalking, pouncing, drawing blood."


"I know to whom I owe the most loyalty, and I see him in the mirror every day."
—Starke

"While we fought, the *il* surrendered."
—Oracle *en*-Vec
"I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately."
—Henry David Thoreau, *Walden*
"What do a hero and an arrow have in common? In times of war are many more made."
—Elvish riddle
Неоспоримый хозяин Шиванских гор.

Beauty to the eye does not always translate to the touch.
Hurkyl's research at the College of Lat-Nam wasn't enough to stop the two brothers, but for centuries thereafter her spellcraft taught artificers restraint.


"The results of our ninth inoculation were the same. The specimen was, of course, euthanized before the contagion could spread."
—Vedalken research notes
"The ravings of the mad are laced with eldritch knowledge."

Confused but undeterred, the butterflies charged into battle.
A brainchild of Tawnos, the Triskelion proved its versatility and usefulness in many of the later battles between the brothers.
It was the explorers' only tether to reality.
"Thraben belongs to the living. I will not rest until it is cleansed."

"The realm of the gods opens before me!"
Many ogres extracted blood oaths from the oni they summoned. Others simply extracted blood.


A massive pull of mana caused all of Dominaria to pause —Multani had transplanted Yavimaya to Urborg's edge.

Like the tide, time both ebbs and flows.


"Things are changing again. So maybe we change."
—Jadis


A tool to see the unseen.

"Never stop 'til you see your lance come out the other side."
—Telim'Tor
The enraptured audience barely noticed their programs were suddenly blank.
Myra doesn't believe in stopping rides for minor inconveniences like "they need to be repaired."

Under his rule, there is but one creed: Chaos shall reign.
"As Zendikar has bled, so will Innistrad. As I have wept, so will Sorin."
—Nahiri


Regarding the relative might of pen and sword, the official position of the Brokers is "Why choose?"
Knowing the hymn's power, the followers of Leitbur carefully guarded their pillaged transcriptions.

"I have been brought to this place and I cannot leave. I may be free of the amber, but I am still in prison."



"But once, with a magician's help, Time was stopped and Day stood still."
—"Love Song of Night and Day"


After encasing it in a paralyzing beam of light, the angel studied the Eldrazi as a child would study a bug, curiously and without fear.
On Jund, everything eventually ends up in something else's stomach.
Cries of panic echo along Kessig's narrow ravines as howlpacks herd their prey.

Few think to look past a familiar face and a friendly smile.
"My wings shall be your shield. My sword shall be your vengeance."
Amid this whirling hurricane of blades, there is no calm eye in which the hapless can find shelter.

"O! it is excellent / To have a giant's strength, but it is tyrannous / To use it like a giant."
—William Shakespeare,
*Measure for Measure*


Karn said nothing—he just grasped the powerstone and squeezed tightly. The wild flashing ceased.
"Limitless power is glorious until you gain limitless understanding."
—Ixidor, reality sculptor



After the destruction of the Helvault, fearful mobs soon became fearless battalions.
"It's delightful, the things their owners reveal when they think no one is listening."







"There is, in each of us, the potential to heal and the gift of renewed life."
—Kaysa, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order

Banking steeply, the aven streaked toward the ground—and vanished.


"Aurelia seems too eager to solve her problems by delivering them to oblivion."
—Prime Speaker Zegana

To save Dominaria, nine planeswalkers sought the annihilation of Phyrexia itself.
Mulch is the fabric of life in the forest. Plants live in it, they die in it, and then they become part of it, feeding countless generations to come.





"The specimen seems to be broken."


Masters of adaptation, galeriders serve multiple purposes useful to the hive. When they're not patrolling their territories, their majestic wings serve to circulate cool air through the vast hive chambers.
"I like problems that can be solved with an axe. And it turns out, when you have an axe, that's most of them."
"Your bravery honors us all."
—Dromoka, translated from Draconic
"Fear of fire is a sensible instinct. If I were you, I'd be terrified."
The faces of Geth's corpse-dredgers are disturbingly similar.


An invasion weapon of ages past, the glistening oil contained the blueprints of countless atrocities.
Keldon warriors don't need signals to tell them when to attack. They need signals to tell them when to stop.
His home clachan's familial spirit bolsters his own, but he will be ready to preside over the town as cenn only after he learns to project that strength to others.

Spot one ember beast, attack.
Spot a second, best fall back.
—Dwarven saying


All across Gavony, in shuttered bedrooms and locked barns, young people seek the answers their elders failed to provide.
The dread gases didn't kill Farbid. But as he lay in the muck, miserable and helpless, watching ghouls and rats advance on him, he wished they had.
Imps are just intelligent enough to have an understanding of cruelty.
"How truly vast this city must be, that I have traveled so far and seen so much, yet never once found the place where the buildings fail."
He raged at the world, at his family, at his life. But mostly he just raged.
"What size advantage? They never even see me coming."

"This palace will be our fire-spit, and roasted prince our victory meal. Send in the torch-pigs!"
—Ghut Rak, Gruul guildmage
"Across the land rebellions seethed and swarmed / As vicious war lords swooped down on all sides."

The longest lines in the park.

"There's no 'I' in 'team,' but there's a 'we' in 'weapon.'"
"Pain isn't a negative stimulus. Pain is a sign of your imperfection."
—Sheoldred, Whispering One
All over the Razor Fields, Whitesun is celebrated. Even the followers of the rebel Juryan, far from the Cave of Light, bow their heads in reverence.



"I've seen Ravnica's fate. Believe me, I'm doing you a favor."
"Anything a falcon can do, a bat can do in pitch darkness."
—Urdnan the Wanderer


"I like goblins. They make funny little popping sounds when they die."
—Braids, dementia summoner
Tangling vines, fetid murk, paralyzing poisons, and crawling dead. The swamp is nature's trap waiting to be exploited by unnatural minds.
In the arena, vampires set aside all pretense of honor or civilization and fight like the predators they know themselves to be.
The Tyranids advanced inexorably across the galaxy in their living Hive Ships, with one singular goal: to consume all.
"The secret to invention is to see something in your mind, then find where it hides in the world."
The frost giants have been out in the cold a long, long time, but they have their rage to keep them warm.
Thinking of dinner made Squee realize that the forest was probably thinking the same thing.
"Nissa will save the elves, but only the ones who have proved their worth."

"It has been my experience that disasters like to strike in pairs."
The courage of those who work the land is born of long days of labor in the hot summer sun and the cold winter wind. It is the courage of the earth itself.
"No, not an accessory to murder—I'm looking for an accessory *for* murder."
—Nadja, Flaming Fist investigator
Krond, the personification of the dawn's light, lives to exact justice on his nemesis Vela.

The winged helms of the Guard are put on for pageants—but taken off for war.
"What, these old things? They were just lying around, gathering dust. I figured I might as well put them to use."




"His energy is as boundless as the powerstones'."
—Rebbec, architect of ascension
Random mutations among Rootwater merfolk were common—and disturbing.






An Auriok shield is polished to a mirror finish even on the inside, enabling its bearer to watch foes ahead and behind.
Ziatora's second-in-command has a habit of appearing when and where her enemies least expect her.



A changeling involuntarily mimics the nearest being at hand, sometimes trading a borrowed shell for borrowed claws.
"I can't protect everyone here. But those I can, I will."
—Karn
Beneath the waves, things appear the way merfolk want them to.

Its light exposes enemies and lays secrets bare.

The voice of a clamavus commands all who carry the genetic legacy of the Tyranids in their blood.

The fountain had stood in the town square for centuries, but only the pigeons knew its secret.
"Study the great spirits of our age and those of the past. Prune secrets from the branching traceries of our lineage."
—Twila, Gilt-Leaf archdruid
"My children will rule over all!"

Ancient lore locked in a mind driven mad is just as safe as when it was locked deep underground.










Elspeth's squires do not seek advancement. For them, no knightly glory could surpass the glory of serving their champion.
"They groaned, they stirred, they all uprose, Nor spake, nor moved their eyes; It had been strange, even in a dream, To have seen those dead men rise."
—Samuel Taylor Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
"A display of humility is required of those who still possess such frailties."
—Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite
"He is part of a new breed of guardian, one who embraces the best of both his world and ours."
—Mayael the Anima

"Listen to the roar! Feel the thunder! The Immersturm shouts its approval with every bolt of lightning!"
"Your prey is in my custody now. Withdraw."
—Vivien Reid


No amount of solitary studying can replace a master's tutelage.


ゼンディカーでは、今日の草原は明日の密林であり、狩場も天気と同じぐらいにすぐ変わってしまう。
"I'd be happy to stop contradicting you, Urza, just as soon as you start being right."
—Bo Levar, planeswalker
To the sorrow of all, its winds found sin in the hearts of those who once learned from its wisdom.
Beware the generosity of demons.
Lightning tethers souls to the world.
—Kor saying

"It's hard to find their weak points, but I very much enjoy the discovery process."


"One day the land will don the semblance of flesh and challenge even the plowshare's blade."
—Oracle *en*-Vec
Not every tale ends in glory.
A golden helix streaked skyward from the Helvault. A thunderous explosion shattered the silver monolith and Avacyn emerged, free from her prison at last.

"There is no place for mercy in defense of our lives."
—Ta-Spon, Cho-Arrim executioner

The Keldons would never admit it, but Greel unsettles them, too.





"Consider the fable of the greedy herder. As her flock grew, so did her weariness; she slept, and the sheep wandered off."
—Karn, silver golem

Tawnos finally cracked the puzzle: the strange structures did not house Mishra's malevolent creations but were themselves among his creations.
"I have given my life to the church, my soul to Avacyn, and my heart to the people."
Some spirits cling to one person, feasting on the growing fear until a final moment of all-consuming terror.

Only the sun that beats down upon Arashin's walls could shine more brightly.




"The explorer who found it got a bad deal when he sold it. He merely got rich."
From the Sardian mountains wakes ancient doom: / Warrior born from a rocky womb.



"Murder of the living is tragic, but murder of the idea is unforgivable."
—Janus, speaker of the synod
As Gerrard made his escape, the wurm covered his flight by helping itself to three great mouthfuls of merfolk.




Liliana is never one to follow someone else's lead.
"I cannot teach you their brand of magic, but I can teach you how to defend against it."
—Tavalus, priest of Korlis


Goblins and architects seldom get along.
"At last! Proof that it's not all in my head!"




"I fought fiercely, bravely, and without mercy. Had I not struck down my captain in the heat of battle, I might have become a hero instead of an outcast."


"You know your orders. I know your hearts. Now the stronghold will know defeat."
—Eladamri
After millennia of advancement in goblin military theory, Toggo VI realized that almost everyone is afraid of fire.

Twilight falls. We rise.
—Necropolis inscription

Pray you never hear it chime.
The sparkmage shrieked, calling on the rage of the storms of his youth. To his surprise, the sky responded with a fierce energy he'd never thought to see again.


Sometimes it is better to be swift of foot than strong of swordarm.
—Elven proverb


It wasn't as much a strategy as a dim instinct to drown their prey.
"There shall be a vast shout and then a vaster silence."
—Oracle *en*-Vec


The lives of Keranos's chosen are brief and brilliant as lightning.

Once, water ran here. Now only dust and ash fall from the clifftops.

"Death is just a transfer of energy. Those pests I harvested have the honor of becoming pure magic. What could be more beautiful?"

"Shed your thoughts and let my will flow through you."
To Olivia's guests, a welcome. To everyone else, a warning.
In the Jamuraan jungles, there is often no separating beauty from danger.


Xenagos reveled while Theros burned.


Though Mishra was impressed by the staves Ashnod had created for Zegon's defense, he understood they only hinted at her full potential.
To some, the Tolarian sunrise was a blinding flash; to others, a lingering glow.


"They were once our brothers and sisters."
—Etha, former Rhet-crop initiate
The back of each ticket features a map to the lost and found.




"Advanced Elemental Manifestations is canceled until all students have thawed."
—Prismari dormitory notice
Out of sight, into mind.
"Any scrap of compassion that still existed in my soul was permanently snuffed out when they cast me out into the flames." —Mairsil, called the Pretender
You are who you eat.
"You are wrong," Volrath said. "I do not hate the living. They often prove quite useful to me." And then he laughed.
Foolishly, Najib retreated to his castle at El-Abar; the next morning he was dead. In just one night, the dwarven forces had reduced the mighty walls to mere rubble.

"I tell you, the trees were closing in! It's by the grace of the Heron alone that I made it out of the Ulvenwald!"
—Ricton, traveling merchant


「久遠の闇の中に住むなど考えられない。精神を打ち砕く奴らに遭遇するなど。」
——タイタン年代記
"When something dies, all things benefit. Well okay, just our things."
—Ezoc, Golgari rot farmer
Every ancient relic is a weapon if you throw it hard enough.

"Eye of twilight, give us sight. Take our offer, give us might. Make our power tears of night."
"Don't eat anyone before dinner—you'll ruin your appetite."
The brighter the wings, the deeper the impact crater.




Water calls to water, and the world is left exhausted and withered in its wake.



". . . By six offensives from the hills of Qi Kongming sought to change Han's destiny. . . ."

"His tongue must be honey, the way he gathers ants to fight with him."
—Volrath
It is everything and nothing.

"Hmmm—midnight snack."
By the year 208, Cao Cao commanded more than 1,000 experienced generals and a million infantry, cavalry, and naval troops.
"The eerie, wailing Hymn caused insanity even in hardened warriors."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. II*


For a brief eternity, the truth refracted across a thousand futures.
"Some claim that rage is a cloud that obscures thought and vision. But I can assure you—I've never seen with greater clarity."
One bone broken for every twig snapped underfoot.
—Llanowar penalty for trespassing








"I have schemed too long to be supplanted by dead gods. If I cannot have this world, no one can."



Nature's secrets can be read on every tree, every branch, every leaf.
TODAY'S FORTUNE: AVOID CHANDRA'S INCENDIARY EXPERIENCE AROUND 11:37.
"Steel rusts. Arrows break. But righteousness is always strong, always sharp."
"With precise coordination and enough blood spilled, one can be driven off, even brought down. But two . . . that's a lot of blood."
—Munda, ambush leader



"Dangerous to recognize. Deadly not to."
—Lazav
"The wild tangle of the Cowl provides sanctuary to life that watched the first buildings rise."



"Why do you weep for the dead? I rejoice, for they have died for me."

Come and rest here, beyond the constraints of space and time.
"Ogg hit wall. Ogg no kill wall. Ogg hate wall!"

"My drivers are trustworthy. I removed their tongues myself. Any other questions?"
"You are the grandest of all," said the archdruid to the trees. They became so proud of bark and branch that they suffered no creature to fly overhead or perch upon a bough.

"No amount of strength can help you overcome my trial. You must be ready to forgo your body and favor your mind."
—Kefnet, god of knowledge

Leonos had no second thoughts about the abolishment edict. He'd left skyrunes warning of the eviction, even though it was cloudy.
Kher Keep is unique among fortresses: impervious to aerial assault but defenseless from the ground.


Gruul territorial markings need not be legible. The blood, snot, and muck used to smear them are unmistakably Gruul.
Few think to look past a familiar face and a friendly smile.

Wings take flight on whispered wind.






Do not fear the lightning. Fear the one it obeys.



"Do not mistake your lofty vantage point for safety."
—Shaper Tuvasa



Victims spirited through a faerie ring find themselves stranded miles away.

"Strength in numbers? Right."
—Ib Halfheart, goblin tactician
The enforcers make no effort to distinguish gold from flesh.


"I'll capture gentle zebras / for your steeds and fill the stable with every kind of unicorn."
—"Love Song of Night and Day"



The form of the sigil is just as important as the sigil itself. If it's carried on a medallion, its bearer is a master. If it's tattooed on the body, its bearer is a slave.


Its insatiable hunger quickly depletes a region of prey. It must migrate from place to place to feed its massive bulk.
The whispers are incomprehensible, yet cinders always hear a message of urgency.
"Our revered ancestor Seshiro gave us wisdom greater than poison and fangs."


「天使は太陽のように輝き、弱者を鼓舞し、暗闇を脅かし勝利を手にすることできる。しかし、結局そんなことは重要ではない。それでも最後は他の害虫と同じように死ぬのだから。」
——オブ・ニクシリス
"Some say it's better to think before you act. While those people are considering all the options, that's usually when I kill them."
—Dravus, lava mage
Some duergars dismiss the world above as a fable. They react violently when their comfortable illusions are dispelled.
"Let my passion spur your victory."


"We're planting the seeds of change. Sometimes, we plant them in people."
—Vorel of the Hull Clade
"How many more will die before you accept your fate?"
—Erebos, god of the dead
Lorwyn's stones resonate with the place from which they were hewed. Though taken far, still they call to their home when silence is upon the land.
The best defense is to not get hit.
Flawed copies of relics from the Thran Empire, the Su-Chi were inherently unstable but provided useful knowledge for Tocasia's students.
Needledeep had promised that his final project would be his biggest one yet.
The sky is the dragon's throne, the seat from which it issues its fiery decrees.




At the lash of the hive ship's feeder tentacles, the cruiser vented atmosphere, cargo, and crew members into the void.
She lures victims with promises of flesh, captures them in a net of deceit, and destroys them in the embrace of the sea.

"Nature is a wonderful engineer but works far too slowly for my tastes."

After fear and weakness rot away, that which remains is stronger than its living form.



"The jeweler, the potter, the smith . . . They all imbue a bit of their souls into their creations. The kami destroy that crafted mortal shell and absorb the soul within."
—Noboru, master kitemaker








"Inspiration is found by looking outward."
—Oviya Pashiri, sage lifecrafter
Doing something at the last minute isn't so bad when you can make that minute last.

Living so close to death gives the aetherborn an unusual perspective on risk.
The maze-like design embodies the core of Azorius law-strict structure designed to test wills and stall change.


"Drop a dagger into the murky deep and the merfolk will cut your throat with it."
—Skyshroud saying
"Who's next?!"
"Always carry two spears."
—Mokgar, Kalonian hunter
"The spirits of the righteous shall rise into the sky. Even dirtwalkers will fly like aven."
—Major Teroh
"Get it? Bunnies, letters, -X/-X? Me neither."
—Bucky, flavor text writer
The thunderhead that leads in the storm.





Power over death was Griselbrand's gift. Liliana's formidable necromancy was now unparalleled.

Gaea forged her soldiers into self-wielding weapons that struck down all impurities.





She yearned to walk on dry land so she might take her vengeance there.


"Their hopes dashed on our shields! Their victory slashed by our swords!"
"We don't like interlopers and thieves cluttering our skies."
—Dionus, elvish archdruid
Like many Izzet creations, weirds are based on wild contradictions yet somehow manage to work.

A smaller cousin to the dragon, drakes are often seen at the side of powerful wizards who use them as airborne eyes and ears.
"Trying to stop it would be foolish. If you feel it coming—run!"
—Sergeant Ryda
"You may enter, but leave those lifeless things of your world behind."
—Modruni, maro-sorcerer
For disfigured elves, there are few choices beyond death or nettlevine.
"I often think on how excited they must feel to be chosen as my prey."
"The war polluted the land, turning what had once been fruitful fields into fetid morasses of mud and rusted corpses."
—*The Antiquities War*



"Shiv is a restless land. It heaves ash, bleeds lava, and scabs over in black obsidian."
—*The First Eruption*

Only those gifted with the eye of Ugin, the spirit dragon, can see his fiery breath.



The insects keep the wurm's hide free from parasites. In return, the wurm doesn't eat the insects.
"It's amazing how scared a city kid can get at a dog. Now, of course, I'd cross Terisiare alone, and keep no watch if I had a pack of greys hanging on my flanks as I went."
—Oddveig Ulfsson, caravan scout
"Where our potions and powders fail, perhaps nature will succeed."
—Reyhan, Samite Alchemist




"All will know of your crimes."
"If my heart had a lid, I would lift it and show you my joy."
—From Suq'Ata wedding ceremony

Better potent than predictable.



"You have not died until I consent."

"Living scarecrows make a mockery of the natural order. Dead ones make fine hats."


"It might fight the Eldrazi, but don't mistake it for a companion, Gideon. It's not interested in your concept of strength through unity."
—Najiya, leader of the Tajuru
"Death lizard approaching, cap'n!"
—Brint Doobin, last words
"My time will come, when the rising tide will surge above the tallest mountain."
"Best bury them right. We don't want any gruesome encores."
—Constable Trosk
Valuing scholarship above all else, the inhabitants of the Ivory Tower reward those who sacrifice power for knowledge.
When defeat is near and guidance is scarce, all eyes look in one direction.


"The monster that scares me the most isn't the biggest."
—Taelya, Lavabrink pyromage
When defeat is near and guidance is scarce, all eyes look in one direction.


It's not any fun until someone loses an eye.


"As with any malevolent being, the trick is knowing how long you can afford to keep it in your service."
—Liliana Vess





The most terrifying thing about the Craw Wurm is probably the horrible crashing sound it makes as it speeds through the forest. This noise is so loud it echoes through the trees and seems to come from all directions at once.

Those who intrude upon the Dimir seldom remember that they have done so.

"My family protects all families."



Bant's hearts are as pure as its air and as bright as its skies.


"We share a common enemy. Does that not make us friends?"

"Praise Nurgle! For the plague to have progressed so quickly, truly his blessing must be upon us!"
—Ku'gath Plaguefather
The sky boiled over the citadel, dire and dark. Then the angels brought the dawn.


"Struggle, and you will only fan the flames."
—Talibah, embermage
"Let the flames ignore the sinless."
"Each syllable chills your veins. Each word rattles your mind."
—Cabal Patriarch
Emrakul has not been seen in months. Though her brood's numbers have dwindled in her absence, each drone is still a deadly threat.




「刃使いは新たな敵へと怒りを向けた。根腐りとキャベジのナメクジだ。」 ー神話と奇跡、第七巻




And you thought that was just an urban legend.
Stunned by the mere presence of the leonin kha, the nim raider quickly fell to its knees.



"Unfortunately, it doesn't restrain the beast's smell."
—Glissa Sunseeker

"Before the war, we prayed to Kataki to sharpen our swords and harden our armor. Without his blessing our weapons are all but useless against the kami hordes."
—Kenzo the Hardhearted

A Thran relic, it has spent ten thousand years doing absolutely nothing.
The insects keep the wurm's hide free from parasites. In return, the wurm doesn't eat the insects.
"The land grows only where the kami will it."
—Dosan the Falling Leaf

The Abzan avoid extended supply lines by incorporating weapons stores into their battle formations.

"Leave no scraps, lest you attract pests."
—Mardu threat


"Festival's just ahead. You're almost there!"
"There is no victory without virtue."

The most terrifying thing about the Craw Wurm is probably the horrible crashing sound it makes as it speeds through the forest. This noise is so loud it echoes through the trees and seems to come from all directions at once.
"This is it! All the cryptoliths point here!"
—Jace Beleren
Storm crow descending, winter unending. Storm crow departing, summer is starting.
"The White-Shielders think their code justifies their actions. In truth it only binds their hands."

Jamuraan farmers fear three things above all else: droughts, floods, and hornclaws.
"It is the nature of evil to turn you against yourself."
—Starke


In its hoofprints, barren dust becomes fertile ground.
"Whiptails can sense a traveler's footsteps from a great distance. Measuring that distance has been . . . difficult."
—Jalun, Affa sentry
Cephalids value the free exchange of ideas—except for the "free" part.


"The stone speaks. We are merely interpreters."
The thief doubled back twice, doused herself with perfume, crossed the ocean, and still woke up with her pursuer close on her heels.
The rider set off into the eerie mist, swaddled in armor and laden with amulets.
"They put bars on these noble beasts and then wonder why werewolves target our towns."



There are two ways to resolve puzzling situations: thoughtful contemplation or force. After thoughtful contemplation, most barbarians choose force.
"Be you, be free, live happily!"
Even in their mountain fortresses, the Akroans have learned not to anger Thassa.
Those who raged most bitterly at the world in life are cursed to roam the nether realms in death.
Earth Elementals have the eternal strength of stone and the endurance of mountains. Primordially connected to the land they inhabit, they take a long-term view of things, scorning the impetuous haste of short-lived mortal creatures.
She is cursed with visions of monsters and suffering . . . and all her visions come true.


When the path to Starnheim was opened, vengeance rained down upon the enemies of Bretagard.
"Be open to the blessings, whatever their form."
—Kaysa, elder druid of the Juniper Order


Cephalids specialize in things unseen, be they politics, betrayal, or themselves.



Nobody has ever won the bear, but then again, nobody has ever wanted it quite as much.
Once favored companions, many cats were left to fend for themselves.

Ral had wielded lightning all his life but had never harnessed the power of an entire guild.

The ideas came flooding in so fast that they couldn't all be contained.

Woven from threads of the spirit world, the mistcloak rendered its wearer invisible, but quickly fell to tatters.
"Your mind is too filled with foolish concerns to hear the subtle whispers that the breeze brings."



"Rise once more, so you may continue to destroy our enemies."
—Karona, false god

Every world is a work in progress, constantly reshaped by time, disasters, and even the powerful magic of Planeswalkers.
Everybody knows that to ward off trouble, you knock on wood. But usually it's better to make a wall out of the wood and let trouble do the knocking.

Before the Kami War, the shishi were symbolic guardians, protecting the shrines where they stood. But after the kami turned on the material world, shishi began pouncing from their perches to attack would-be supplicants.
"The toads of Urborg aren't fast, powerful, or pleasant, but they have their uses."
—Ertai
"We are the hands of the great trees, reaching out to ensnare what threatens their branches."
—Elvish hunter




Unlike previous conflicts, the war between Urza and Mishra made Dominia itself a casualty of war.

"Go swiftly, clever arrow, and teach
The philosophy of stillness."
—D'Avenant verse
Death greeted the world with a roar of desert air.
"Heed the lessons of our time: the forms of water may move the land itself and hold captive the fires within."
—Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran royal mage
A pretty bauble of persecution.



"My little winged friends tell me which of these townsfolk are worth tasting for myself."
"Nature is a wonderful engineer but works far too slowly for my tastes."


The sculptor, like most artists, put his heart and soul into his work. But the newly awakened golem decided it wanted its creator's other, more tangible parts.
As he repaired the ship's planeswalking engine, Karn saw for the first time how he could catalyze the *Weatherlight*'s evolution.





At the heart of Ish Sah, Geth stokes the dark fires of Phyrexia.
Though giants are mortal, they live so long and on such a grand scale that many small folk don't believe they ever truly die.


"I hate insects of every sort. The only mercy is that they are generally small."
—Mwani, Mtenda goatherd
Bright as a mirror, dark as the sea.






Gyara Spearhurler would have been renowned for her deadly accuracy, if it weren't for her deadly accuracy.


"When the land is angry, so are they."
—Nissa Revane
"Only the foolhardy would venture into the Akoum Mountains without a lullmage to tame the raging rocks and living fires."
—Sachir, Akoum Expeditionary House
"We in the Conclave have a saying: 'When you hold a shield, lend your shield.' The strong must never forget what they owe to the weak."
— Niszka, Selesnya evangel

Otto the Hunter was filled with many grand ambitions. The snake was filled only with Otto.

"Better to starve to death than be bored to death."
—Liliana Vess

Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.
"The most powerful dreams visit those who shelter in a dragon's skull."
—Chianul, Who Whispers Twice

To wield lightning is to tame chaos.



The loxodon ascribe religious superiority to those born albino, believing them to be spiritually pure.


It is the call to arms, the call to fury, the call to blood.

"Though you may leave this haven we have found, may our strength never leave you."



"Lieutenants dishonored, corpses carted home; The general raises troops again to take revenge."



"I have found the courage to face death—twice, if I must."




When a changeling adopts a form no other changeling has taken, a rune appears in the caverns of Velis Vel to mark the event.

"Release that which was never caged."
—Spellbomb inscription



"Toralf blessed me with fire. I am worthy of Starnheim!"


"I like a little entertainment with my dinner."
—Rakdos
"Down here, we have a more pointed version of the scriptures."
—Urabrask's enforcer



The Blacklances travel deep into the wilds, sometimes for years at a time, in search of the lost Cauldron of Eternity.
"Our revered ancestor Seshiro gave us wisdom greater than poison and fangs."
"How can we hope to match the speed of lightning? The fury of storms? The power of mountains? The answer is simple. We cannot. I advise against this war."
—Sensei Hisoka, letter to Lord Konda

After a hundred failed experiments, Urza was stunned to find that common silver passed through the portal undamaged. He immediately designed a golem made of the metal.
All across Gavony, in shuttered bedrooms and locked barns, young people seek the answers their elders failed to provide.
Some have endured the horrors of Innistrad by becoming the worst monsters of all.
Urza always put Tocasia's lessons on resource-gathering to effective use.



There is only one fate left to those banished from the God-Pharaoh's city.

"It's better to carry a little extra weight than to find yourself halfway down a baloth's throat with no knife."
—Doral, Bala Ged guide



"When the forest wants something, no mortal mind can resist her."
—Maro



"Some of the other guys dared me to touch it, but I knew it weren't no ordinary hunk o' rock."
—Norin the Wary
To the uninitiated, the Ring of Renewal is merely an oddity. For those fluent in the wielding of magic, however, it is a source of great knowledge.



The Vodalian Empire tends to be insular. The scholarly Volshe caste are the exception, using education as an antidote to xenophobia.


"We are as brutal as our dragonlord. We strike like wild lightning and feast on human flesh."
"All plans begin as dreams. I intend to awaken them."
The elves thought of the myr as minor threats, just as the myr thought of the elves.
Her centuries-long search is ended.

There is no shortage of illegal salvage in Ghirapur, nor of those who are willing to profit from it.

No one really knows how deep the waters go beneath the Undercity, nor what amorphous horrors lurk within.
Only the quartermaster wept for their loss.


A mother only a child could love.


"The peasants labor for my profit. I approve."
"It offers but a taste of the power that the shadows have to offer. But even that is a heady wine indeed."
—Ratadrabik of Urborg
Priests of Erebos give an occasional reminder to mortals who have forgotten their mortality.



"This battlefield is an anvil, my mace a forging hammer . . . and you, Phyrexian scum, are the scrap metal that's about to be reshaped as I see fit."
All the aether charts in the world can't compete with the trained eye of a talented scout.

Even the oldest treefolk was but an acorn when Lorwyn's first mysteries were born.

Did the land make the Keldons? Did the Keldons make the land? Or were they simply meant for each other?
Seyden's temperament didn't take well to the puca's magic. Nor did his face.
"Catch!"
The enemies' shields are the first to shatter, and their battle line is never far behind.
"Every sword drawn to defend is an angelic blade, guided to justice by an angelic hand."
—Auriok proverb
"Smash this city to pieces."
—Domri Rade



"You don't tame a horncrest. You convince it that it's easier to destroy something else."
—Amautl, knight of Atzocan
"I can post only the most honorable and strong-willed samurai to defend your stronghold. I have seen what can happen to lesser men."
—General Takeno, letter to Lord Konda
"The time of condemnation is at hand. Dusk washes over the world, and I consign you to eternal darkness!"

"It has been my experience that disasters like to strike in pairs."


"My favorite meal is angel's flesh, slain in agony and iced with black vinegar."
—Aszala of House Dimir
It's fun. He doesn't need another reason.

"The music of blades against its silver armor merely inspires it to bellow more full-throated melodies."
—Huatli
Partners in love, partners in life, and partners in crime.

He has journeyed where none have been before. Now he returns to ensure that none follow.
In Kessig, even celebration wears a fearsome face.



Strength is relative.
Tel-Jilad's sworn protectors are the trolls, yet more fearsome protectors were created by the Tangle itself.
A great wizard always has a few surprises up their sleeve.







When it awoke, it shook the plane with the thunder of its craving.

The touch of Serra's angels bears hopes aloft and empowers noble causes.
Though their work is widely reviled, stitchers see themselves as being on the cutting edge of science.
The odds are good, but the goods are odd.


The power of a waterfall. The fury of an avalanche. The intellect of a gale-force wind.





He bids his minions rise from their graves to their knees.
The Consulate's eyes—unblinking, unsleeping—are everywhere.


"Hone the knife and mourn the least. Three chimes to sound the sweet, grim feast."
—Barrow witch incantation
No guts, no glory.














"Petting in the petting zoo is not advised."
—Astrotorium waiver
"Intruders in the lands of Atarka have but two choices: be consumed by fire, or be consumed by maw."
—Ulnok, Atarka shaman




Enduring the most desolate and dangerous conditions, Abzan sentries unfailingly guard the stronghold gates.
"Everything in Nature contains all the powers of Nature."
—Ralph Waldo Emerson, "Compensation"
"When they covered the world in city, all they did was give themselves nowhere to run."


Nylea watches over all the creatures of the forest except for the snakes. Blessed by Pharika, they can take care of themselves.

Dear Mr. and Mrs. Cranford, After careful analysis of Jeremy's vocational testing, I feel that he is best suited for a career in either torture or art direction.

"By ancient magics, by angels' grace, we will survive this night."
The perfect antidote for a tightly packed formation.

It consumes any dreams of victory.
"The dragon is a perfect marriage of power and the will to use it."
@-Sarkhan Vol
"Although my official log will state there is no evidence pointing to the existence of the mistfolk, my certainty is lessened by the cursed consistency of the expedition's eyewitness accounts."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry

"You've never considered the implications of dealing with another telepath, Jace."




"A mysterious people indeed. Their origins are as secret as their traditions."
—Lord Magnus of Llanowar




Those who are chosen do not doubt. Those who remain do not lament.



"On this night, the dark will fear us."
Bound to a cryptek, the cryptothrall exists for one reason: to defend its master to the death.
"The hussars can't catch him, and he evades our traps with ease. I fear he walks unseen even in the halls of New Prahv."
—Arrester Lavinia, Tenth Precinct


"Garl, adjust the slurry dispensers. Garl, fetch more corpses. Garl, quit crying and give me your brain tissue. If he doesn't stop being so rude, I'm quitting."

"Wirewood cannot hide great size. Only with speed and skill can we survive here."
Loyal to a fault, it anticipates its master's every need.









"Little flower twirl and bloom, arise from this your rocky tomb. Little warrior slash and brawl, be born again to free us all."

The hex swept through the village, its citizens falling one by one.
"Pathetic—like I wouldn't know a goblin painted up to look like a dwarf!"
—Pashad ibn Asim, Suq'Ata trader
Its hood blossoms as a warning: receive your gift, but stray no closer.

"Despite their bravado, mortals are fragile. If Zendikar is to endure, its lords must save it."
—Drana, Kalastria bloodchief


"This world will not be tamed."



Jund is a world as cruel as those who call it home. Their brutal struggles scar the land even as it carves them in its image, a vicious circle spiraling out of control.



"Gleams like moonlight on water drew us through the storm and toward our doom."
—Siona, captain of the *Pyleas*

"Roil tide! Roil tide! Tie yourselves down!"
"My only dream is to destroy the nightmares of others."


It powers the dreams of Ghirapur.
"It's like a reef that runs aground on ships."
—Jaby, Silundi Sea nomad
Phyrexia's spiral of consumption grows ever wider and darker.
"This war is not about loxodon or leonin, Sylvok or Auriok. To defeat these rotters, we must do it together."

Whether trained, ridden, or eaten, few goblin military innovations have rivaled the bug.
One quiet word sets off the stampede.

The currents of the Marang wash away both tracks and blood.

Temur shamans speak of three destinies: the now, the echo of the past, and the unwritten. They find flickering paths among tangled possibilities.
"As the sun sets to make way for dawn, so we turn to darkness to bring about the coming salvation."


"Hi! ni! ya! Behold the man of flint, that's me! Four lightnings zigzag from me, strike and return."
—Navajo war chant



"Esper, like any work of art, can be truly appreciated only from a distance."
—Tezzeret
"What was yours is mine. Your land, your people, and now your life."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer

The Pretender Mairsil ordered a great Calendar drawn up to show when the paths to the Dark Lands were strongest.
Life's too short to not do the things you love.
"Will not the mountains quake and hills melt at the coming of the darkness? Share this vision with your enemies, Lim-Dûl, and they shall wither."
—Leshrac, Walker of Night
"We have been victims of treachery, of the Cabal, and of our own ambitions. No more."
—Commander Eesha
I howl my soul to the moon, and the moon howls with me.





Urborg became the final resting place of many swordsmen of renown, their steel outmatched by the wiles of Gwendlyn.

Ramos bled, and there was fire.



"Send in your cavalry! Diaglu loves horsemeat."

Centuries of wind, rain, and roots compressed into an instant of destruction: such is the power of Selesnya.

He raged at the world, at his family, at his life. But mostly he just raged.




Magic written across the sky falls like rain on thirsty ground, bringing forth wisdom in its season.
"Etherium is limited. Innovation is not."
—Tezzeret
"This is the price of being last in the food chain. We must keep our places of beauty hidden away instead of displayed for all to see."
—Hildin, priest of Avacyn
"Shame we'll never see what all the fuss was about."

"Quick, Rhirhok—teach me to swim!"
—Makht, goblin casualty

One light, one blade, one purpose.
—Vow of the Serra Paladins
A shining symbol of Paliano's true ruler—ambition.
"In the field, speed-reading is a survival skill."

"Fear not. Your life will not go unlived."
Unlike previous conflicts, the war between Urza and Mishra made Dominia itself a casualty of war.
When the eagle catches a cloud, it tears it into strips that fall to earth.
—Vec myth of the rains

"Removing the encumbrance of useless brain tissue grants several advantages: a slight increase in mobility, a response of revulsion and horror from the enemy, and, in the case of large specimens, room for passengers."
—Zul Ashur, lich lord

"The perfection of the lotus reminds me of my hopes for this world . . . and my failures. I will not rest until I've atoned for them."
—Karn
"If the air must feed, let it take the self-righteous."
—Murat, Death Speaker



With one motion, a pest is removed and a scourge inflicted.
In life, the nantuko study nature by revering it. In death, they study nature by disemboweling it.
Trapped on Ravnica with no affection for either side, Ob Nixilis sought gratification in random acts of torment.



There is always a rabble to be roused.
Cast out of Garenbrig for his crimes, Ennor turned to fae magic to fashion the perfect weapon for his revenge.
The ground itself lends its strength to these walls of living stone, which possess the stability of ancient mountains. These mighty bulwarks thwart ground-based troops, providing welcome relief for weary warriors who defend the land.
An Akroan soldier's worth is measured by the number of swords raised by his battle cry.

"Come back, cowards! Everyone knows Merfolk can't wield magic!"
—Pashadar Dirf, Goblin Flotilla Commander, last words
"Leotau that were born wild make the best mounts. It's like riding a thunderstorm."
—Rafiq of the Many


Theirs is a craft brought about by necessity, now raised to the level of art.
In one gargantuan bite, it will swallow not only you but also the riverbank you were standing on.


"One scratch on a wall meant safe passage, two that the target had already been raided, and three warned of a trap."
—*Weaponry of Kamigawa*

"We draw our power from the infinite ocean of the mind, where all manner of things can be conceived."
—Azure creed



"Prayers can be powerful, but I prefer to put faith in my own two hands."



"Madness can't touch a mind ignited by genius."
"I gazed once into that light. Now it burns in my mind, forever denying me rest."
—Riku of Two Reflections
"My people are bound by masters centuries dead. Each artifact we destroy is another link broken in that chain."
—Barb Tail, viashino heretic
The thick, moving mass from the beginning of evolution swallows and digests the animate and inanimate as it unthinkingly strives to continue its existence.
"So you see, the reckless battle strategy of the Kathorran orcs was effective, but ultimately proved to be a double-edged sword. As did their double-edged swords."


"We don't choose who comes here. We choose how long they stay."
"No matter how far we push into Stensia, undeath will always remain in these lands."
—Terhold, archmage of Drunau

"Death has seeped into every part of this plane. I can feel it on my skin and taste it like sand in my mouth."
—Nissa Revane

Without vowels, no one can hear you scream.
Break in case of emergency.

"There is always more to give."
"Engaging Protector protocol."
"This city will perish, and the Gruul will cheer as the boar-god crushes the last bricks into dust."
—Nikya of the Old Ways



"You've begun to understand the hedrons' true purpose," said Ugin. "The Eldrazi can be imprisoned."
"And how did that work out last time?" asked Jace.

"Nothin' beat surprise—'cept rock."

"One wizard is a suspect. Two wizards are a conspiracy."
—Elvish refugee









Chaos does not choose its enemies.
It traps an explosion within its stony skin.


"Far-seeing Kruphix glimpsed the end: Heliod's spear cast down and broken."
—*The Cosmogony*
"'Do you know, I always thought Unicorns were fabulous monsters, too? I never saw one alive before!' 'Well, now that we have seen each other,' said the Unicorn, 'if you'll believe in me, I'll believe in you.'" —Lewis Carroll
Liliana insisted on coming to Amonkhet to confront one of the two remaining demons to whom she is bound.

Serum was once derived from Mirrodin's blinkmoths, offering visions of inspiration. Now it is pulled from Phyrexian inkmoths, yielding visions of perfection.
"You can sign, or you can spend your life imagining what might have been yours."

"Zendikar will fight until it has bled its last."

Jariad burned the midnight oil, burned through scroll after scroll, and then burned down his laboratory.
"You foolish knights pound your breastplates and vow to fight until your last breath. As if that's when it ends."
@-Tormod, the Desecrator




Weakness is not in the nature of the Swarm.
"I'll fight two at once, and then lick their guts from my blades."
In a rare display of ingenuity, the Orcs invented an incredibly destructive weapon. Most Orcish artillerists are those who dared criticize its effectiveness.

Wracked and warped with anguish, it obsessively seeks out other souls to hoard within its eternal prison.


You'd scarcely believe they could fly until they drop out of the sky onto you.


For wisdom's sake, it was built high to gaze on all things. For glory's sake, it was built high as a testament of power. For strength's sake, it was built high to repel all attacks.

Kami manifest in the form of whatever they embody in the physical plane. Some tower in the shape of moss or bark, while others take forms beyond mortal imagining.


"Better to flare out than to gutter."
—Flamekin expression
"Before I let you wield one of these, let's see you dodge one!"
"It's a thankless job, and you'll probably die in an explosion. But the pay is pretty good."
—Toothlicker Harj, Orcish Captain

His prowess gives the guildless hope that they can hold out against tyranny.
"I feel in them a sense of duty and commitment, yet I can feel nothing else. It is as if their duty is to an empty void."
—Razia, Boros archangel


When Captain Thorn adds a new ship to his fleet, he gives the crew a simple choice: follow me, or fall in the sea.
The ride is whimsical and fun, except when it's broken.
Without Embereth's courage, the realm would falter and fall.

Nature grows solutions to her problems.

"Priests, hunters, slayers—to arms! The enemy approaches!"
The folk of Kessig build up their courage by burning effigies of the things they fear.


"The gods here may walk among the people, but they are not with them."
—Gideon Jura


No matter how crowded the den, everyone's welcome to squeak in for the festivities.
"Taking down a dragon is easy. All you need is enough space to get in a good swing."
—Narbulg Nine Fingers

"Get ready, son."



Immune to the physical warping caused by Emrakul, geists proved to be some of humanity's most important allies.
The earliest mystics believed that the falcon slit the sky to let the light break through.
"There is no gain without sacrifice."
—Icatian proverb



It uproots entire fengrafs to add to its twisted frame.
"Rise, elf. We are both of Gaea, and thus we are equal."
—Multani, to Rofellos
"They all want to see me fall."

To become king of the Goblins, one must assassinate the previous king. Thus, only the most foolish seek positions of leadership.
An angel's blessing prepares a soldier for war better than a thousand military drills.
"Your life is finished, your name lost, and your work forgotten. It is as though Mazeura never existed."
—*Chainer's Torment*


"Suddenly there stood a fortress protecting the clachan, its walls hewn of valor and mortared with honor."
—*Clachan Tales*

"These moonless, foreign skies keep me in thrall. Dark whispers echo in the night, and I cannot resist."
—Selenia, dark angel
"I do not teach. I simply reveal."
—Daudi, Femeref tutor
"I am not afraid to die today nor afraid of what death will bring."




"Do not think the sand or the sun will hold back the breath of winter."
Weakness is not in the nature of the Swarm.

"Try to pretend like you understand what's important."
"Defeat is no reason for retreat. It is a sign we must redouble our efforts to win this fight."







"Why would someone have built ... wait, never mind. Send it to the front lines!"
—Commander Grozdan
The travelers were warned to watch out for children on the road.

The glorious city of Pachatupa is the center of the Sun Empire, and Tocatli, the emperor's palace, is its glowing heart.


The Benalish aristocracy is hereditary, but the loyalty of its subjects is earned.
To thallids, the whole world is just a pile of mulch to grow saprolings in.
The forest's cover offers shade, shelter, and an increased risk of sudden death.
"I avoid violence. It is the last resort of the witless. But if you insist, I'll make an exception for you."


"Silumgar's mind is a dark labyrinth, full of grim secrets and subtle traps."
—Siara, the Dragon's Mouth
For the Phyrexians, death is not an end, nor a one-time occurrence.
Ivold was aghast when his device revealed the full scope of the geist infestation.


"My observations of the Multiverse are too valuable not to preserve for posterity."
@-Dovin Baan




"Some say a great cyclops turns the world in its hands, looking down upon it with its one bright eye."
—Afari, *Tales*
"Well, I guess stealth's out of the question."
"This may hurt a lot."


"My husband is clever enough to bottle the sky, and foolish enough to ignore its beauty."
—Queen Kayla bin-Kroog
Sometimes quantity, in the absence of quality, is good enough.
"Flittering, wheeling, / darting in to strike, and then / gone just as you blink." — "Dragonfly Haiku," poet unknown
Lands ravaged, cities in ruins, so many lives sacrificed, and yet there was no other word for it but victory.
Undeath doesn't end the kathari's search for carrion; it only removes one corpse from the Dregscape.
"It augments anamnesis. What is so confusing about that?"
—Perisophia the philosopher


"Just when I get them working, they always start fighting and tearing at each other for spare parts."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator
"What bait do you cast to catch a dream?"
—Ravnican riddle

"There's a word for someone who brings too much gear to battle: 'survivor.'"
—Zada of Slab Haven
"You have to admit, Gideon—he has great form."
—Liliana Vess



Depending on your point of view, the seal represents a proud guardian of the natural cycle or one who has sold her soul to darkness for eternal life.

"Thoughts are commodities. Someone will pay a good price for them. Even ones as simplistic as yours . . ."
—Ennor, mentalist

Spitting is the customary greeting between a creature and its magical impostor.

They stop for nothing, not even the end of a battle.
"They may show up with the wrong thigh bone or mandible, but they always show up."
—Zul Ashur, lich lord

"See that no one enters or leaves New Prahv today. And notify me at once of any Planeswalker activity."
—Dovin Baan

Every little cub has its mother's teeth to guard it.
—Elvish saying

And then the Archangel Anthius spoke to them, saying, "Fear shall be vanquished by the Sword of Faith."

To gain audience with the hegemon, one must bring a riddle she has not heard.

Its mandibles can leave a rider in the clouds astride a headless griffin.




"There's nothing like a good meal to really lift the spirit."
"The body is a temple with a foundation of sand."
—Autumn Willow
"Though used as a piercing weapon, the tusk is more akin to a stinger, spreading pain instantly throughout the body of its victim. This specimen deserves further study."
—Simic research notes
Goblins don't know the meaning of the word "tactics"
—or the word "meaning," for that matter.
"The key to unlocking this puzzle is within you."
—Doriel, mentor of Mistral Isle

"The blood of the forest is beholden to no one."
—Nissa Revane
Goblins prefer caves to just about anything else. Caves prefer just about anything else to goblins.

In theory, the death of the Eldrazi should have stilled the Roil. It did not.


In a world where death is always violent, cruel weapons are as common as rocks.
The clicks and buzz of the undercity proclaim him the incarnation of decay.
There's no better defense than simply being out of reach.

"A potion is no substitute for a skilled surgeon, but it will hold your bits in."
—Torricks, battlefield medic

"I dedicate my body to my country And my life to my King."
—Alaborn Soldier's Oath



What goes up, must come down.
Two little goblins, out in the sun. Down came a griffin, and then there was one.

It doesn't matter if the mind or body cracks first. They both have to go.

And yea he doth spake: "Let there be Magic."
The path to power is often paved with atrocities.

"He bears the marks of ages upon his skin, memories of dreams long dead and best left buried."
—*The Seer's Parables*



The most effective roadways in Paliano aren't roads at all.


A paladin's steed is a celestial spirit in animal form.
Where water is the canvas and lava the paint.
He just likes to break legs. Collecting the debt is a bonus.
Gideon and Liliana may not have seen eye to eye, but that did not stop them from fighting side by side.




"You never know what's going to be in goblin tunnels. Even in the best case, there will still be goblins."
—Sachir, Akoum Expeditionary House


"To reach my age, you must know when to bend with the winds and when to stand tall."
"The trollish game of push-fall inspired this impressive tactic."
—Sidar Jabari
Imbued with life by a stray bolt of spellcraft, it began to wander about the foundry, to the blacksmiths' alarm.




"Thoughtweft binds us together as one, part of an intricate pattern that would unravel if even one thread came loose."
Kavu leaders instinctively protect their herds from harm.


We are many wicks sharing a common tallow; we feed the skies with the ashes of our prey.
"Hup, two, three, four,
Dunno how to count no more."
—Mogg march
A stitcher looks at their creation and sees the result of years of study and hours of toil. A devil sees a new plaything.
"Look! That is why we must never waver. That is what awaits us if we fail."
—Djeru, initiate of Tah crop

Dark schemes cut down what armies cannot.
"To escape Littjara, follow a bird."
—Tuskeri folklore
"You gotta be pretty smart to live long as me, but not being able to die helps."


Hobgoblins are best left alone. They sharpen their farm implements far more than is necessary for their work in the fields.

"Ninjas can run across water, pull ladders from pockets, kill with a kiss, and slip between bricks. Pack of lies, I say."
—Benden, teahouse gossip

"What else, when chaos draws all forces inward to shape a single leaf." —Conrad Aiken
Ancient yet ever-young, it is wise and subtle—and cruel and reckless as the spring itself.
"Before my eyes was a horrible monster, worthy to figure in the legends of the marvellous. . . . Its eight arms, or rather feet, fixed to its head . . . were twice as long as its body, and were twisted like the furies' hair."
—Jules Verne, *Twenty Thousand Leagues under the Sea*, trans. Lewis
"Avacyn's protection is everywhere. From the holy church to the sacred glade, all that we see is under her blessed watch."



"While we delay, they're on the move. They will not wait as we bicker. We are losing this war by moments as our goal slips beyond our reach."
—Gideon Jura


Listen to the sound of defeat.

"May Ganathog bless us with bloody visions of glory restored!"

"I feel their unnatural influence in the weary, weeping land. Do they care nothing for the creatures who walk below their clouds?"
—Eight-and-a-Half-Tails
Mages come from far and wide to bathe in its wisdom.

At a distance, we mistook the sound for a waterfall . . .

When the shadow of the aven falls across the battlefield, hope rises in the hearts of the soldiers.

The grim business of the Coliseum casts long shadows.
The murderous horrors of Raven's Run are legendary, but even that haunted place goes quiet when the night wolves howl.



The Sun-Dappled Court of Valeron stands secure behind a wall of steel-tipped arrows.
The dwarves call their quicksilver techniques "improvisational weaponsmithing."

Merfolk curiosity usually has dire consequences, but rarely for the merfolk.

Simic's strength comes from its diversity.


The Cicatrix Maledictum split the galaxy asunder. The raw stuff of Chaos flooded into realspace, transforming whole planets in moments.
The path of least resistance is often through your enemies.
"They groaned, they stirred, they all uprose,
Nor spake, nor moved their eyes;
It had been strange, even in a dream,
To have seen those dead men rise."
—Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
The demon had flown past the reach of Erebos's whip but not the point of the sun god's spear.


After finding no sustenance on the edges of Grixis, it turned to the skies of Bant.


For the Simic Combine, its sigil serves not as an emblem of honor but as a trademark. Its familiar image on any biological commodity attests to superb craftsmanship, ingenious innovation, and higher cost.






"The land is not dead, merely sick. I will nurse it back to health."




"The merfolk of the Pearl Trident have risen from the waves since the earliest days, at times allies to humans, other times enemies. Now their power is cresting again, and who can say which way the new tide will flow."
—Kalis, Onean scholar


The kami of Jukai Forest accept only the most respectful petitioners.
"Brims" Barone's enforcers are always dressed to kill.

"The Eldrazi have surprised us before. It's my job to make sure that never happens again."
Hospitality is of little concern to those who do not wish to be disturbed.


"Stensia blazes with new heat. Nephalia's tides are chaotic. And everywhere, this unnatural frost. The land is sending a warning."
—Katilda, Dawnhart Prime
Esper mages devised their weapons to be so devastating that war seemed unnecessary.
"Fools dig for water, corpses, or gold. The earth's real treasure is far deeper."
Saltfield nomads call a sudden storm a "whitemane."
A place for everything, and everything in its place.
The simplest gift from a dragon can be a revered accolade for a human warrior.
"What cannot be destroyed will be bound."
—Oath of Avacyn

"If I am to die, I will die in the embrace of immeasurable flame."

"Fortune does not side with the fainthearted."
—Sophocles, Phaedra


"It has been my experience that disasters like to strike in pairs."






These days, some wizards are finding that they have a little too much spell left at the end of their mana.
"Some bend the law. I tie it into knots.
It's the favored mount of military commanders as well as anyone with a flair for the dramatic.


The Izzet signet is redesigned often, each time becoming closer to a vanity portrait of Niv-Mizzet.



Squires throughout the realm aspire to her mix of panache and martial prowess.

"If our former masters would have us kneel again, they shall feel our defiance slashed across their membranes."


The boiling seas around Shiv provided a welcome layer of protection for the reclaimed Mana Rig.
"Close your ears to the voice of greed, and you can turn a gift for one into a gift for many."

"No good will come from what you seek. Turn back now or suffer an ignoble death far from your home."
The deep sleep of winter is not always restful.


Waterways carve their routes through the land to reflect the paths the aether streams cut through the clouds.

"Even when hope is but a small flame fighting the night, I will serve the absent king."
"Remember to discharge your locket every seven hours. Unless you prefer the spontaneous aether overload, of course."
—Daxiver, Izzet electromancer




Tracking it isn't the hard part.

Even dragons fear its silken strands.

"Melt that which was never frozen."
—Spellbomb inscription

The bounty on its head is as old as Skysail, but no one has ever tried to collect.

After the Foundry Street riot, Arrester Hulbein tried to ban bludgeons. Which, inevitably, resulted in another riot.
"I have faith in your potential."

"Hmm . . . It looks kinda like a bug. Let's crack it open an' see if it tastes like one!"
—Squee, goblin cabin hand


Always easily impressed, Durg was about to be blown away.
"He's a lot like me, that masterless little kami... unimpressed by grandeur and never at a loss for a trick."
—Toshiro Umezawa
Everyone comments on the buttons, but few appreciate the pedals.
The continent of Murasa lies beneath a blanket of dense vegetation, its enormous branches tangled so thickly that some inhabitants never see the ground.
No spot in nature is truly barren.




"Let me guess. You thought I was dead."

"Class is in season."

The mind is a beautiful bounty encased in an annoying bone container.

Tahngarth, first mate of the *Weatherlight* under Sisay, knows that there are really only two forms of life: the ugly ones and the minotaurs. A narcissist, he considers the condition of his hide as important as the accuracy of his blade.
Some rumors are just plain nuts.


Like arguing with ice
—Vodalian expression meaning "wasting your time"
"The Boros say they want to bring order to Ravnica. Funny then, how well they use chaos."
—Trigori, Azorius senator
Arrows are only one way to remove an enemy.
"As long as there's no outside food, you're good to go."

Face of innocence. Hand of death. Designed by Edmund McMillen
The continent of Guul Draz is a geothermal swampland reeking of heat and decay.
If you're in the way of a ceratops charge and you're made of mere flesh and bone, then you're not really in the way.
Seeing it coming a mile away is little comfort if you can't get out of range in time.






Once these horrifying creatures were perfected, there was no need for armodons.
"Oh, Valki. I'm disappointed in you. How could the god of lies be so gullible?"
—Tibalt

"If they don't pinch, they burn. Can't ya eat any of da bugs here?"
—Squee, goblin cabin hand

"There is one hour of the night even we do not watch."
—Sedva, captain of the watch
Having flesh is increasingly a liability on Mirrodin.

Even baloths fear its feeding time.

"Walk now in my light. When the rest of the world closes its eyes, you will still see."
—Iona
Der Löwe zwinkerte
—Ausdruck der Femeref für "noch einmal davongekommen

"It's only the end if we allow it."


"Tell the cooks to prepare the fires. Tonight we feast!"
—Tolar Wolfbrother, Krosan tracker
"They groaned, they stirred, they all uprose,/ Nor spake, nor moved their eyes;/ It had been strange, even in a dream,/ To have seen those dead men rise."/
—Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"

When the earth shudders, the sky overflows.
"It matters not if the gods hear my prayers. Jamuraa does."
To renew the land, plow the land. To destroy the land, do nothing.
—Druids' saying
"Of course you're being followed!"









"One cannot cleanse the wounds of failure."
—Karn, silver golem
Boggarts constantly strive to outdo each other with the things they bring back to the warren, each hoping the exploit will become as well-known as those of Auntie Grub.
Each time the saw blade bit, the tree spat it out.
Her prophecies amaze her even as she speaks them.


These devices lured so many spirits that sometimes entire battlefields would become haunted at once.

Anrakyr the Traveler awoke from his slumber with a singular goal: to rebuild a united Necron galaxy.
"Swords, to me! We must engage their line to protect our archers and mages. Let no one fail this task!"



"Being an inventor means knowing how to use the tools at hand to make something great—or to bring it down."
—Pia Nalaar




"No doubt the arbiters would put you away, after all the documents are signed. But I will have justice now."
—Alovnek, Boros guildmage

"From a tiny sprout, the greatest trees grow and flourish. May the seeds of your mind be equally fruitful."
The traditional kings of the jungle command a healthy respect in other climates as well. Relying mainly on their stealth and speed, Savannah Lions can take a victim by surprise, even in the endless, flat plains of their homeland.




Greven *il*-Vec lifted Vhati off his feet. "The fall will give you time to think on your failure."
Though you may see the same bones, you'll never see the same skeleton twice.
"Even if we defeat it, what remains to be saved?"
—Glissa Sunseeker
"The paladins would be wise not to forget about the Pearl Trident. The merfolk warriors have turned the tide of more than one human war . . . and I have no doubt they shall do so again."
—Onean scholar


"The scavengers who first found it called it the 'Bone Crank.' Not a bad name, I'd say."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
It carries the hopes of Zendikar's embattled wilds on its mighty boughs.
"Auntie Grub had caught a goat, a bleating doe that still squirmed in her arms. At the same time, her warren decided to share with her a sensory greeting of hot tar . . . ."
—A tale of Auntie Grub

"It appears that nature has risen against us."
—Captain Brinely Rage
No matter how much the slivers change, their collective might remains.
Previously the training center for cathars, the Elgaud Grounds are now used by the Lunarch Inquisition to punish those considered to be heretics.
"You are not alone. You never were."

"Which do you think is a better deterrent: a moat of water or one of fire?"
—Chandra Nalaar
In a rare display of ingenuity, the orcs invented an incredibly destructive weapon. Most orcish artillerists are those who dared criticize its effectiveness.

"The undead are not 'awakened.' They are evicted when there is no room left in the pit for more bodies."
"The Dimir may look all they want. We never grow tired of swatting their bugs."
—Heruj, Selesnya hierophant


Trompers are the most feared warriors of the Pheres Band. Anger is their lifeblood. It sustains them and gives them purpose.

Light's champion in the stronghold of darkness.

"It tells you that the worst is coming. Do you listen?"
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
"When gods become apathetic, the people will worship anyone who answers their pleas."
—Kiora



"The expected way through the trial is far too tedious."




Its hunger and ire are no less for being wrought of lies and mist.

A sharp axe solves most problems.



"I have become a gourmet of sorts. Each soul has its own distinctive flavor. The art is in inviting the right company to the feast."
"This creature has innate perceptiveness. It knows when to rise and when to vanish into the tides."
—Jestus Dreya, *Of Elements and Eternity*
"Accursed scarecrow! Sending folk in every direction is the same as sending them nowhere at all."
—Corliss the Wanderer
"Stalking hard or hardly stalking, am I right?"
The Obscura's Cloud Spire dominates the skyline, its eye a beacon of progress that sees all.
Even wurms start out small.
"Knock, knock."

"A whole skin is worth a thousand victories."
—Orcish Veteran of the Battle of Montford

"Grab what you want and burn the rest. Leave nothing behind."

Gorgons crave beautiful things: gems, exquisite amulets, the alabaster corpses of the petrified dead . . .
"When I made my oath to Moradin, I left selfishness and cowardice behind. Every battle, I make that commitment anew."

"I raised my bow, and the wolf stared at me. Under its gaze, my finger would not release the string."
—Aref the Hunter
"Keep your fancy magic. All I need is a hook and a sturdy length of rope."


"Even this primitive specimen of my kind is impressive."
—Niv-Mizzet
"That's enough of that."
—Atemsis, All-Seeing
The first Rath-born pegasus was so offended by the sky that it hid its eyes in the earth.
—Vec lore
Any given foothill may hide dozens of dwarves waiting to spill from their tunnels like fire ants.

Instead of creating a tool that would be damaged by heat, the Thran built one that was charged by it.

Attracting a dragon's attention may be the last mistake you make.

"I'll grant that the siege engines are gone, but do you think that might have been a bit of overkill?"
—Sergeant Malsworth
What goes up, must come down.

"A riddle is nothing more than a trap for small minds, baited with the promise of understanding."
Its fiery paws make it easy to track, which is very useful when you want to go in exactly the opposite direction.
"Mogis is pleased by this offering. Bring him more!"
The sky is the dragon's throne, the seat from which it issues its fiery decrees.
The floating city of Skysail has two rules: don't leave your crewmates behind, and don't mess with the guardrails.


"Have you ever held a Boros signet? There's a weight to it that belies its size—a weight of strength and of pride."
—Agrus Kos
From the barest crack in the ice, she teases forth a swirling, living map of the Cosmos.
"Diametrically opposing energies in self-sealed plasmodermic bubbles make great pets!"
—Trivaz, Izzet mage
Like their dragonlord, the Kolaghan take no trophies. They find true fulfillment only in the battle itself, in clash of steel and thunder of hooves.

The Arbiter is a conduit of justice, a will so disciplined that it dispenses justice without ego or remorse.
"Being all-knowing is a matter of remembering which things it is crucial to forget."

Not all heroes carry swords.
"Even in single combat, I am never alone."
—Rafiq of the Many
Some people will hire anyone with a pulse. Myra isn't that picky.
Druidcraft is a simple invocation to spirits of nature, promising a glimpse of nature's secrets.




All the birds of the skies are the spirit's brood, gathered for safety under its wings.


Atarka goblins meet their demise as readily as their Temur counterparts did, but usually under big, winged shadows.

It will happily carry home your treasure or drag you back to civilization, as circumstances demand.

A golem's hands know no tenderness.
A shield of light admits no shadow.

"I'll take that. You won't need it when the revolution comes."

"The chest cavity is cleared of useless meat. I know just what to do with the space."
—Gyed, Vault Priest

Bores ruin a party. Boars are party to ruin.
"The thunder of hooves is music to my ears."


"The landscape shimmered and I felt a chill breeze. When my vision cleared, I found myself alone among the corpses of my fallen friends."
—Journal found in Numai



Mercadians not wealthy enough to buy a tomb are thrown into a bog called "the Ghoul's Larder."

Where the geometries of the world collapse, a master of the aether can harvest power beyond comprehending.


"Heel! Wait, no—fetch the whole leg!"
—Stitcher Geralf
"I think she wants us to eat it," said Squee, staring at the oily carcass the cheetah had dragged to their fire.
Sometimes it's not for sustenance or to feed the dependence. Sometimes it's just to feel again.
The drake flew true. The arrow flew truer.


Only the warrior who can admit mortal weakness will be bolstered by immortal strength.



With Olivia distracted, Sigarda tore free from her bindings and summoned her Host of Herons.
As the ship approached, the jade totem rose high overhead. Power rippled. Eyes of stone glowed and crackled. Out hissed a breath of the world, and a windstorm came alive.
"Beware an eddy where there should be none or a stretch that flows too fast or too slow."
—Old Fishbones, Martyne river guide
A snake in the grasp.

Lush growth spreads like a ferocious blaze across the Otarian hillsides.





On the morning of the Battle of Gal-Shan, the Sorcerer's cry rang out: "Let no bird fly, let no creature take wing, let all the battle join as one."
You are who you eat.
She is cursed with visions of monsters and suffering . . . and all her visions come true.


"If I'm going, I'm taking you with me!"
Mages dare not attempt magic in its grotesque presence.

More than any other battlefield, the forest gives the advantage to those who know it best.
"Rith is the claw of the ur-dragon, scattering seeds of devastation."


"There are deep, deep places in this world that have long burned hot with little regard for the whitening of the earth's thin skin."
—Sek'Kuar, Deathkeeper
The spires of Ravnica are no different from the tall trees of other planes. The elves navigate and protect them just the same.

"Their appendages are sharper than our swords and quicker than our bows."
—Hastric, Thunian scout





Heads and shoulders above the rest.
It crushes all underfoot, yet leaves no trace of its passage—no trampled debris, no flattened souls, not even a hoofprint.




"Where did I find my horned friend? Now there's a story worth telling. . . ."

"You will succeed as one or fail as many."
"Our stories define our reality."
—Ugin
"I have no patience for sipping blood from crystal goblets. I want to bite and tear."
"She is truly Wirewood's child now."
—Elvish refugee
Only death breeds in stagnant water.
@-Urborg saying
Familiarity, the first myth of reality: What you know the best, you observe the least.
Morale rarely survives the sudden appearance of a squad of Sursi skirmishers at an army's flank.
When he began to curse what he held holy, his strength grew unrivaled.
Hyenas laughing—what's the joke?
—Femeref phrase meaning "that's not funny"

The Izzet's plans to exploit the undercity ran into a few stubborn obstacles.


Some protection requires a bit of finesse.


The heron is the symbol of the archangel Avacyn. The fact that such spirits still fly gives the church hope that its founder may one day return.

If you can see it clearly, you're already on fire.
"Glorious, to walk again across the savannah with my beloved."
—"Love Song of Night and Day"
The lone wolf dies alone.

Its footsteps of today are the lakes of tomorrow.
Nowhere on Ikoria are monsters more integral to the landscape than Ketria, where the river itself will stand up and roar.

"Airships are too confining. If I'm in the sky, I want to feel the wind in my hair and taste the aether."
Gruul territorial markings need not be legible. The blood, snot, and muck used to smear them are unmistakably Gruul.
Grand Warlord Radha's challengers are always defeated, but she rewards the most passionate with the Flame of Keld. After that, they burn for her.






"May you drink until you drown but never be sated."
—Odila, witch of Morkrut



Mirinthes thought death was seconds away when the giant's fist closed around him. Two days later, he was praying for death's release.

Dominaria's most extravagant crypt nevertheless holds an empty grave.
The rich's heirs often thank them after death . . . but preferably not in person.
—Suq'Ata epigram

"Which would you like first, the insult or the injury?"



At his behest the Kami War began to regain That Which Was Taken.

"I once had an entire race killed just to listen to the rattling of their dried bones as I waded through them."
—Volrath
A mirror, a shield, a promise, a great distance, and a kind word—five ways to avoid harm.

"The man whom I call father killed the orc who sired me, offering his world and his blade in return."
Only the most ravenous soul feeds on the health of the weak.
Out of the blackness and stench of the engulfing swamp emerged a shimmering figure. Only the splattered armor and ichor-stained sword hinted at the unfathomable evil the knight had just laid waste.



"Even your shadow is too foul to tolerate."


The evil inside the mountain pulsed at Nissa in a shock wave of madness.
"Let us remember brave Jarkeld and his troops, who perished in the Adarkar Wastes so long ago."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest
"We are the shield unbroken. If we fall today, we will die well, and our trees will bear our names in honor."





His roots reach deep, nurtured not by soil and rain, but by millennia of experience.
Reduce. Reuse. Wreak havoc.
"From a tiny sprout, the greatest trees grow and flourish. May the seeds of your mind be equally fruitful."



Following the battle of Redcliffs, both Liu Bei and Sun Quan coveted the province of Jingzhou. After Sun Quan's troops failed to capture it, Liu Bei's succeeded.
Titania rewards all who honor the forest by making them a living part of it.
The more you struggle against its coils, the tighter they get.
Take everything from them. Lives. Flesh. The very gorund they walk on. Only then will your victory be compleat.

An elder in one pride, of the Sigiled caste in another.
Which is the greater folly, summoning the demon or expecting gratitude from it?
When Raganorn unsealed the catacombs, he found more than the dead and their treasures.

Ivold gasped in surprise. Either a very strange insect had crawled onto one of the lenses or he was seeing geists at last!
"Those who fear the darkness have never seen what the light can do."
—Selenia, dark angel
Silverfurs are the last remaining wolfir.


"Never underestimate the ability of natural forces to adapt to unnatural influences."
—Molimo, maro-sorcerer

A seething locus of reverent rage.


Depending on your point of view, the seal represents a proud guardian of the natural cycle or one who has sold her soul to darkness for eternal life.

Jund feasts on the unprepared.
"Sometimes even the smallest boon can save a life."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest
www.MagicTheGathering.com

A tidy desk is as good as an invitation.
"It will be the goblin's first bath, and its last."
—Fire Eye, viashino bey


"Fear holds no place in faith's battle plan."
"I lead my horde to the northwest. I won't return until the ice wizards fall and their fiendish contraptions are crushed!"












There is only one fate left to those banished from the God-Pharaoh's city.

The law is meant to ensure that people kill each other with only the utmost fairness.
Having flesh is increasingly a liability on Mirrodin.

"Knowledge is the greatest tool of the mortal mind, outweighing anything made by mortal hands. Before anything else can exist, the idea must exist."
The soldier reaped the profits of peace.


"Beauty to the eye does not always translate to the touch."
—Naimah, Femeref philosopher
Though she is rightly feared, there are relatively few tales of her deeds in battle, for few survive her raids.
At a distance, we mistook the sound for a waterfall . . . .
"My goat was a small price to pay for the chance to see the hunting griffin dive and seize it."
—Suq'Ata trader



"If you only follow where the paths lead, you merely go where others have gone before you."
Dust-spiked winds eroded the stones, but the ground where they had stood still holds power.


2019 Europe Vintage Champion
It's hard to say for certain which end is more dangerous.

"Every book is a doorway to enlightenment. Curiosity is your key."





The Champion reached for a stone, and Heliod placed the sun into her hand.
—*The Theriad*




Serra's blessing lies strongest upon Sursi, where her holy chapels are untouched even as the Cabal encroaches.

"Whatever Yawgmoth marks, dies. There is no escape."
—Tsabo Tavoc, Phyrexian general

Over such beauty, wars are fought. With such power, wars are won.

"I have lived long, and I remember how this city once was. If my death serves to bring back the Ravnica in my memory, then so be it."

"Our bodies may lie slain, but perhaps we can still complete the ritual. I'd rather not spend my afterlife in this wretched eternal night."






May the worthy spend an eternity in Blessed Sleep. May the wicked find the peace of oblivion.
It came as a cruel answer to the farmers' prayers.
The undead may outlast the living, but those who have never lived outlast them both.






"This world may not know peace, but in my presence you *will* know quiet."
—Augustin IV

"I'll keep watch. Happy now?"

"How did we find each other? So there I was, exploring a mound of monster corpses..."
There is only one fate left to those banished from the God-Pharaoh's city.
They say the Zombie Master controlled these foul creatures even before his own death, but now that he is one of them, nothing can make them betray him.


"What is mana but possibility, an idea not yet given form?"
—Jhoira, master artificer
Such plush accommodations.


The fastest way across the dunes is above.
Its beak rends flesh and bone, exposing the tender marrow of dream.

"First, the darkness fell. Terror came next. After that, only despair remained."
—*The Tragedy of Morein*

He provides a safe path to nowhere.
"Avacyn has abandoned us! We have nothing left except what we can take!"



The ultimate answer to intrigue and subtlety.



All things considered, his first day on patrol could have gone better.
"About, about in reel and rout
The death-fires danced at night;
The water, like a witch's oils,
Burnt green, and blue and white."
—Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
Goblins are eager to follow orders, especially when those orders involve stealing, hurting, annoying, eating, destroying, or swearing.


This leash disciplines the master.
"She knows every step of this coastline, both above and below the surface, and she has hideouts all along the way. She will get you there."
—Jori En, expedition leader


"Terrifying, but thankfully temporary."
—Teferi
"To see past the veil of death, cross it."
—*The Red Book of Mezdrithalik*
Boggarts get so excited when they find something new to smash that they really don't notice who gets underfoot.
Many necromancers share the same last words—the ones that conclude the undeath ritual.
To the soldier, war is famine; to the scavenger, a feast.
Tonight at the Grand Exhibition, witness Head Judge Tezzeret face off against the infamous renegade Pia Nalaar.


"Flesh and bone or star and shadow. It makes no difference to my club."
Frequent, violent storms shape the Nephalia coastline, sculpting cliffs and caves where monsters often lurk.

"Some think its immunity to countermagic evolved because of the constant mage attacks on Naya. I think it just ate a bunch of wizards."
—Broka, drumhunter

Most creatures grow out of their baby teeth, but sabertooth wyverns grow into theirs.
"Its burning power is more elusive than shade on the Unyaro Plains, more perilous than the horn of a rhino."
—Akin, seasoned askari
Knowledge demands sacrifice.
He loved his cities in the clouds. When he traveled to the lands below, he brought many reminders of his home.


Even the lion envies the lark.
"Run like the wind, fierce one. The hunt has begun."
"I am the rock of the polis. Death only strengthens me."






The same magic that lets geists pass through our realm can force them out of it.
The Rakdos believe that all are eager to join their revels, even when told otherwise.



"Headed to the wilds? Beware the dead riders who serve the Shadow Queen."
—Scalan, Edgewall innkeeper



It stops flying only as its life comes to an end.

Alone at the portal, Ertai began his meditation. He realized immediately that he was not alone.




Ever since the disaster, the city's survivors viewed the star-strewn sky with dread.


"A five-day climb? Ha! I'll do it in two."

He could be anyone, anywhere, but he'll never again be "half" of anything.



"I suppose you've never heard of conservation of energy."

"Think of this new life not as a gift from the angels but as a command to fight for their cause once more."
—War blessing of Serra
Gjornersen entertained his followers by taking bets on which would move first—the drowsing land wurm or the frozen goblins.
"Our ancestors grew complacent in their divinity, allowing their lessers to topple them. Never again."
Goblins climb and swing with ease, whether through a pirate ship's rigging or a tree's branches.
"Monsters dwell in every heart. We only think civilization tames them." ―Euphemia, Nexus watcher
Baby dragons can't figure out humans—if they didn't want to be killed, why were they made of meat and treasure?
Lucky victims get run over. Unlucky victims get run through.

"We order them to stand, they stand. We order them to wait, they wait. We order them to die, they die."
—Pontifex, elder researcher




Urza's engineers could take weeks to dig out a powerstone. The goblins weren't so painstaking.
Some claim it's a failed Simic experiment, others say a Golgari creation. Both guilds deny all responsibility, while secretly studying its strange virulence.

Sun Empire commanders are well versed in advanced martial strategy. Still, the correct maneuver is usually to deploy the giant, implacable death lizard.
"We sent three of our best legions! You're telling me no one came back?"
—Tori D'Avenant

War favors the informed.

He'd ignite the World Tree itself if he could.






It has waited a millennium just for you, and for a millennium will it watch over your descendants.

Naya teems with gargantuans, titanic monsters to whom both nature and civilization defer.
"Torahn gore these shifty fishtails! You can't even get close to one."
—Tahngarth of the *Weatherlight*
When the Great Rift opened across the galaxy, many Imperial worlds were lost to chaos.

Empires rise and fall, but evil is eternal.

On Dominaria, a scavenger. On Mirrodin, a predator.


"Through the veil's rip spilled hundreds of minor kami, rushing over the battlefield like embers from a kicked campfire. Then they were gone."
—*Great Battles of Kamigawa*

Some spellcrafting mistakes go on to become spells of their own.

Once you've been dragged down the currents of time, you'll never quite trust your own permanence again.
Sorin had created Avacyn, so it was a cruelty beyond imagining, a pain beyond description, that it fell upon him to end her forever.

Benalia has a complex caste system that changes with the lunar year. No matter what the season, the only caste that cannot be attained by either heredity or money is that of the hero.
The best healers are intimately familiar with death.



"You hit like a kobold!"

No one knows whether they were named for the disease they carry or for the speed at which they multiply.

A fist of dust to line your throat, a bowl of sand to fill your belly.



There are few problems that can't be solved by putting a hole in the world.
"Long after the land has given up the last of its secrets, there will still be mysteries in the depths of the sea."
@-Kiora
The screams are brief. The silence lingers.
"Fools dig for water, corpses, or gold. The earth's real treasure is far deeper."
Hatred outlives the hateful.
"The distraction of your life has ended. Now your service begins."
—Kalitas, thrall of Ulamog





The purple banner of the House of Vess is a symbol of death wherever it's flown.
"You never know what day might be your last."
"If you don't have your health, you don't have anything."
—Proverb





"Should you a Rat to madness tease
Why ev'n a Rat may plague you..."
—Samuel Coleridge, "Recantation"
"Just tell us how many you want and get out of the way."



Remarkably, dinner continued with no further interruptions.
A carriage crafted from the finest materials. Horses bred from the finest stock. Skulls taken from the finest foes.

"As long as there is a single shred of life, there is hope."
—Nissa Revane
"I'm gonna try to set a fire and distract them."
—Glenn Rhee
Some naga initiates move as silently the suns' reflections on the water.
Everyone who could still lift a weapon had a part in retaking Sea Gate.
"We must hunt and kill the dragon before it can return to raze our ancient city."

It has waited a millennium just for you, and for a millennium will it watch over your descendants.

Aggression exacts its toll.




He will win who, prepared himself, waits to take the enemy unprepared."
—Sun Tzu, *Art of War* (trans. Giles)
A new gathering for a new age.





The harsher the winter, the more glorious the spring.
—Yavimaya saying






"Your defiance is amusing, little mage. It's time you learn how fragile you really are."
—Extus Narr
"Think of this new life not as a gift from the angels but as a command to fight for their cause once more."
—War blessing of Serra




"Share your darkest secret and the Mirror will reveal your soul's essence."
—Ceri, royal mirrorkeeper


"I will be your most demanding master, Liliana. But I have great things in mind for you."
It shambled from the cloud of ash and bone dust, undeterred by its own extinction.

Any mogg will tell you there's nothing more nauseating than the smell of cute.

"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim."
—Sisay, captain of the *Weatherlight*
"The echo of silence is music to my ears."
An elder in one pride, of the Sigiled caste in another.


Many wizards came to the Riptide Project hoping to return home with answers. Most, however, wouldn't return home at all.

When defeat is near and guidance is scarce, all eyes look in one direction.
"Yarok grieves within the waste
Of Bala Ged's corrupted land."
—*Lament for Bala Ged*, stanza 1




"My people swore to protect Benalia to the end. It is battered, but yet stands, as do we."

"Kroxa devours what he may—not for sustenance or pleasure, but because it is his nature. He is unending hunger given form."
—Klothys, god of destiny
Drakes claim to be dragons—until the dragons show up.
Using nature to their advantage, wise Three Kingdoms generals often let dammed rivers loose to destroy their enemies.


"My arrows will ever find you."

Alongside his wife, Hurkyl, Drafna built a legacy of scholarship that endured for millennia.

"No, no, it's just a murder of crows, not an omen of murder . . . I think."
—York, Kessig tracker

If it's not one thing, it's another.
"I know to whom I owe the most loyalty, and I see him in the mirror every day."
—Starke
Though Kefnet's followers feverishly searched his last words for some final riddle, they found only the gurgles of a dying god.
"Merciless to the point of psychosis. Let's give him a job."
—Zelinas, Orzhov recruiter
Another imminent battle subsided in busy snuffling and carefree rooting.



What happens when it is the dream that wakes and the sleeper that fades into memory?
"In the drowsy dark cave of the mind dreams build their nest with fragments dropped from day's caravan." —Rabindranath Tagore
Horns of hoarfrost grow every night, gleam at dawn, and melt by dusk.
"Life's greatest lessons don't come from focus or concentration. They come from breathing and simply noticing."
—Seton, centaur druid
No god on Theros ever truly dies as long as there are those who still have faith in them.
"Barrin taught me that the hardest lessons to grasp are the ones you've already learned."
—Ertai, wizard adept

The Falkenrath progenitor was a vicious falconer, and the line is quick to remind others of its heritage.
"The new prototype utilizing a rotational axis is marvelously effective: it makes me want to tear my own ears off."
—Ashnod, to her assistants




"The explorer who found it got a bad deal when he sold it. He merely got rich."
A mother only a child could love.
"But you *said* 'when goats fly!'" Squee whined.

Vedalken eyes don't see the beauty in things. They see only what those things can teach.

Silent, but deadly.
The Thrulls bred at a terrifying pace. In the end, they overwhelmed the Order of the Ebon Hand.






"Even if the sphinxes do know the location of every relic, getting one to talk is harder than just searching yourself."
—Sachir, Akoum Expeditionary House
"Burn. Burn. Keep. Burn."




"I'll have my revenge if I have to call on every force from above and below."

"I've seen them survive lava, trampling, and a moloch's digestive system. They just roll out and get on with their lives!"
—Gannet, Skysail zoologist



Most books simply deliver knowledge. This one expects some in return.
"The only question we need to ask is how best to fulfill the will of the God-Pharaoh."
"We thought the clouds had moved from the night sky. Then the night sky moved, and the horizon grew wings."
—Josuri
"Mercy? Mercy is for the playground, not the battleground."
The voice of a clamavus commands all who carry the genetic legacy of the Tyranids in their blood.


Rath forces plants from its surface as one presses whey from cheese.
There is power in the abyss, in blackness more profound than the darkest dreams.
The promise of anguish is payment enough for services rendered.



"This feels a little more like home."
When one of the great guardians arises, it sweeps enemies aside like chaff yet takes care not to crush a single insect underfoot.



Enter with merciful hearts. Exit with battle cries.
Those who question Ojutai may not like the answers they receive.


She whispered a prayer for strength, and her wishes wafted away like seeds on the wind.


Dust-spiked winds eroded the stones, but the ground where they had stood still holds power.


Embermages aren't well known for their diplomatic skills.
These monkeys mean business.



"For the Legion! For Ravnica!"
"Most wizards consider a thunderbolt to be a proper retort."
—Ertai, wizard adept




"Holy places are no longer sanctuary from death, and death is no longer sanctuary from anything."
—Thalia, Knight-Cathar

"In the lean months, communities lived off a bitterwheat berry so tough that its flour contained more millstone than grain."
—*On the Early History of Keld*

"Why do you weep for the dead? I rejoice, for they have died for me."


She nurtures each flower from seed to blossom, and in return, they whisper secrets only she can hear.
A servant of Pharika must know countless balms that heal and soothe—and countless more that do the opposite.
Quenton barely had a second to admire his exquisite handsomeness before reality collapsed around him.
There is wealth enough inside to cause the rise and the ruin of dynasties.
"Although fragile, the Aeolipile could be quite destructive."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. I*


"With this ring, you have friends in worlds you've never heard of."
—Sisay, Captain of the *Weatherlight*



Few truly live in the moment.
Auntie always knows which berries to lick, which kithkin to trick, and what to do when either goes wrong.
"Anything we can do to hurt the Phyrexian invaders is worth dying for."

It's hard to shout "Shields up!" with a javelin in your chest.
High walls, a sturdy keep, a strong garrison . . . they made no difference. In a matter of moments, the city was lost.
A wraith is a tale of brutal slaying told anew whenever it finds a victim.




Divining the future is easy when you hold the power to sway it.




The most genteel facades hide the most abominable desires.
"I feel in them a sense of duty and commitment, yet I can feel nothing else. It is as if their duty is to an empty void."
—Razia, Boros archangel
An aven's gear is enchanted to avoid weighing them down during aerial maneuvers.
Like the price of goods, the value of the routes was renegotiated daily.


Her true theft was to steal the soldiers away from their posts.

Chandra, Teferi, and Arlinn sought clues to the Moonsilver Key's whereabouts while Kaya dispatched the spirits obstructing their path.
"If one gets in your chimney, you're going to need a long wick and a barrel of bangstuff to get it out."
—Hob Heddil

Most soldiers think of the sword as a weapon. In the hands of Zho monks, swords are also the strongest of shields.



"Quick, let's hide in the sewer!"
—Ginsi the Thief, now deceased


The first searchlights were given as gifts, symbols of cooperation, to the emissaries present at the signing of the Guildpact.



Treefolk and elves share a common interest in the forests, but really the elves just feel at home with the view from above.
The giant spider's silk naturally resists gravity, almost weaving itself as it blankets the forest canopy.
Trained by the Imperials but disillusioned by their rigidity, he gave his heart—and his swords—to the Asari Uprising.
Servants tend to the garden meticulously, ensuring that Upper City residents aren't bothered by the messier parts of nature.
"You say you're capable of flying. You got any proof of that?"

"If you don't like the weather, just wait a few minutes and it'll change ... probably for the worse."
—Amandi, kitesail expert

"Only a gargoyle would take such delight in a thunderstorm."
—Qhattib, Vizier of Amiqat
The Chapter's honored dead are interred in the Hall of Heroes, where the mineral-rich water of the catacombs slowly fossilizes their bones, preserving them for all time.


Through the *eludha*, bonders share the powerful abilities of their chosen companions.








"The wolves turned on us and a chill swept over me. The pack had a new leader."
—Alena, trapper of Kessig



Ideas, not stones, form the true foundation of Meletis.
A golden helix streaked skyward from the Helvault. A thunderous explosion shattered the silver monolith and Avacyn emerged, free from her prison at last.

Each day uncertainty and rumors spread, and each night attendance at the Juri Revue increases.



This timeworn relic was responsible for many of Urza's victories, though he never fully comprehended its mystic runes.
"Remove their power, and their will to fight will follow."
—Tolarian wizard



"A key weakness in the design is its vulnerability to repeated, forceful blows."
Angels watch over mortals with heavy hearts, knowing what fate awaits them in the end.
The storm rages and the earth breaks.
These are its last days. But it will not go quietly.


Grixis is a world where the only things found in abundance are death and decay. Corpses, whole or in part, are the standard currency among necromancers and demons.
Battle doesn't need a purpose; the battle is its own purpose. You don't ask why a plague spreads or a field burns. Don't ask why I fight.
"First, you must fight among the rank and file. It is there I will discern your skills as a leader."
—Aurelia, to Gideon Jura





The vast network of predation on Jund has actually caused some strange creatures to adapt to being eaten.

"My master believes anything is achievable."





"When it comes to killing with precision, a soul is but a hindrance."
—Isareth the Awakener
The most holy treasures are kept far from unclean soil.

Only wool from the side of the springjack turned most often to the sun can be woven into kithkin battle standards. Jackherds record every movement of their woolly-jacks until shearing.
"'Twas when the seas were roaring With hollow blasts of wind . . . ."
—John Gay, "The What D'Ye Call It"

Her prophecies amaze her even as she speaks them.
Don't try to outrun one of Dominaria's grizzlies; it'll catch you, knock you down, and eat you. Of course, you could run up a tree. In that case you'll get a nice view before it knocks the tree down and eats you.
Niv-Mizzet's genius and vanity reverberate throughout the mirrored halls of Nivix.
"To wage war, secure peace within yourself."
@-Emmara



"You can come back once you've learned some manners—and figured out how to reconstitute your physical forms."


"I can see why this appeals to Thassa."
—Kiora





Rakshasa offer deals that sound advantageous to those who forget who they are dealing with.


It harmonizes with the essence of its master.
"When milady was young, the sight of a rainbow would fill her soul with peace. As she grew, she learned to share her rapture with others."
—Lady Gabriella

"It seems there's even better hunting down here."

Isolated on its little candlewick, the kami never heard of the crime that drove its comrades to war.



The sound of Vadrok's gigantic wings is ominous. But the true terror is when they fall silent.
"No, no, it's just a murder of crows, not an omen of murder . . . I think."
—York, Kessig tracker
The abandoned towns on the moors didn't stay empty for long.
"Hope shall be the blade that severs our bonds."
"Only the Ancestor should be revered."
—Mystic heretic
Having gone to the trouble of stealing a bident from a god on another world, Kiora was eager to test its capabilities.



"Marit Lage lies frozen in a glacier's heart. Still her dreams take form in our world, stealing the heat from our souls."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest
"You're not my Hanna!"
—Gerrard, to Yawgmoth







The renewed howling of werewolves announced the end of the Cursemute—and the beginning of Avacyn's madness.
Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.


"Rather than be hunted in the shadows, I choose to face the real enemy. I am not afraid of monsters I can see."
—The Emperor
Ramos bled, and there was fire.

The best ideas often come from the worst minds.



"Drench these golden streets in the blood of our enemies."

Kamahl dreams of storms of fire.

If you can take something from a nomad, it's probably bait.



Some refused to leave their shattered homes, vowing to rebuild at any cost.


"Spread out, you idiots! Spread out!"
—Marsden, party leader, last words
Sometimes primitive cultures attributed natural phenomena to monsters. Sometimes they were right.
"I see more than others do because I know where to look."
—Saprazzan vizier





No thrull has ever been burdened with a long life.



"I opened my mind to the immensity of the wonders around me. It was only then that I could see the Great Conduit."
—Rashmi, aether-seer

The Kalonian word for "ammunition" is the same as the word for "bait."

The charm of a naga is undeniable.

"Peril is in the eye of the beholder. At least, if your aim is good."
—Jaya Ballard
www.MagicTheGathering.com
"Faith is our greatest protector."
—Halvor Arensson, Kjeldoran priest

"There is no justice when some profit and others go without."
"More than lessons may be gained from the past."
—Halvor Arensson, Kjeldoran Priest
When the sea god Thassa wishes to speak with a mortal, she does not issue a summons or grant a vision requesting a visit. The sea simply brings her guest before her.


An avatar he sculpts of wisdom and strength.
"I search for a vision of Zendikar that does not include the Eldrazi."
—Expedition journal entry
Bring the spear of ancient briar; Bring the torch to light the pyre. Bring the one who trod our ground; Bring the spade to dig his mound.



"I'm calling in a favor from an old friend. Once you're all dead, I'll consider the matter settled."
As larvae, they burrow into a host's brain to feed upon it, growing until they're large enough to burst free and seek out larger prey.
The Flowing Staff technique does not differentiate between offense and defense.
"Give up these unnatural weapons, these scrolls. Heart and mind and fist are enough."
—Zyd, Kamahlite druid


"Cut the beasts out from under them and their strength is nothing."
—Vona of Iedo, Butcher of Magan
To Mirrodin, an explosive. To Phyrexia, a missionary.
Ice may thaw, but malice never does.



"I can hear the plunder calling. It asks for me by name."
"The tiniest ripple tells a story ten fathoms deep."
Most human scholars believe that Merfolk are the survivors of sunken Atlantis, humans adapted to the water. Merfolk, however, believe that humans sprang forth from Merfolk who adapted themselves in order to explore their last frontier.

"I await your donation."
—Dasha, Orzhov priest

As the Simic released more of their krasis experiments, they required new habitats, always at the expense of the locals.
Keldon warriors don't need signals to tell them when to attack, but when to stop.

Arc mages aren't known for their patience.
As a young student, she dusted the shelves of Tolaria's great library. Now, she writes the books that line them.
No one has properly answered her favorite riddle: "Why should I spare your life?"
Bear the weight of so many spirits and you'll surrender civility and restraint to savagery and instinct.

The strength of law is unwavering. It is an iron bar in a world of water.

As she shepherds the faithful, the angel's radiance is a shield of salvation.


"On every plane I've encountered loxodons, I've found stalwart and loyal friends."
—Elspeth

Voska feared the artifact had come too easily.
Bladehold houses a rogues' gallery filled with the living "statues" of the worst enemies of the Auriok.
When wurms aren't hungry
—Nantuko expression meaning "never"
"That does it—I quit!"
—Cabal grave robber
"May the worthy spend an eternity in Blessed Sleep. May the wicked find the peace of oblivion."
"Something's causing electrospheric disruption in the blazekite's spire-vanes. Find the cause, and tell them to keep it up!"
—Juzba, Izzet tinker
Even among the hardiest warriors of the Temur, loxodons are respected for their adaptation to the mountain snows.



The elves remember every secret path from the days when they ruled the realm.

To the uninitiated, the Ring of Renewal is merely an oddity. For those fluent in the wielding of magic, however, it is a source of great knowledge.


Most mirrors show your reflection. Others show your potential.
"Beauty to the eye does not always translate to the touch."
—Naimah, Femeref philosopher
They look human— until they bleed.
Empires rise and fall, but evil is eternal.
"Learn from your enemies, but do not tolerate them."





The Auriok have fought the metal hordes for so long now that knowing how to cripple them has become an instinct.
He might call up a burst of lava or a raging hellion from Akoum's volcanic depths. Or he might just fall in.
Villagers cloaked the town in magical silence, but their ears still bled.
Both his rank and his scars were earned in single combat against a cave bear.
"Greetings, tired traveler."
"Even in the darkest night Stars and angels still shine bright."
—Onean children's rhyme


Little agonies pave the way to greater power.



"A mirror does more than reflect reality—it shapes it."
—Niko Aris
"Citizens, do not resist. This is for your safety. Tezzeret bids you to surrender your inventions. Now."

"I see in their interconnectedness a strange embodiment of the natural order."
—Dionus, elvish archdruid
Each small blaze she sets jogs her memory, letting her piece together the mystery of her own fiery end.
It leaves its victims one sting closer to phyresis.

The most nimble of creatures, it chases the most sacred luminence.
"Each night, the artificer tucked the little doll into a locked drawer. Each morning, she awoke to find it waiting beside her with some new bauble."
—"The Artificer's Apprentice"


"Touched by moroii"
—Undercity slang meaning "to grow old"
The thrulls bred at a terrifying pace. In the end, they overwhelmed the Order of the Ebon Hand.
"Light from the Null Moon took form—a mirage made real, alone in grandeur, isolated in a world that once had been its own."
—*Fall of the Thran*

Its spark is worse than its bite.
Public parks are a favored meeting spot for those considering a shift in allegiance.
"I have heard terrible tales of black rains, ashen fields, and metal that screams. I have consoled myself that the tales were a myth of some fevered mind. But today I saw a walker—and now I fear the truth."
—Kasib Ibn Naji, Letters


The land was left depleted and empty, an unsettling taste of things to come.

Kidnappers caught in Havengul are given two choices: languish in prison or become rat catchers. The smart ones go to prison.
Some say magic was first practiced by women, who have always felt strong ties to the land.

Mastery is achieved when "telling time" becomes "telling time what to do."





He could be anyone, anywhere, but he'll never again be "half" of anything.
"It's endearing, in a mystical, pointy sort of way."
—General Tazri, allied commander
The most ferocious saddlebrutes lead the assault, ramming through massed pikes and stout barricades as if they were paper and silk.

"Arise, great one, and cleanse the world of our enemies!"


"Bravery shines brightest in a pure soul."
—Restela, Alaborn marshal
「刃も嵐も、穏やかな心の静けさを攻撃することはできない。」
—-ターラウの彫刻
Like all jungle plants, the vines must fight and claw for sunlight. Once their place is secured, they grow strong, sharp, and impenetrable.
"Into its maw went the seventh sea, never to be seen again while the world remains."
—Esper fable
"Bow before the might of—wait, what?"

"Through all the terrors we face, I hold on to the memory of the world before the Eldrazi came. I'd like to see that world again."

She is cursed with visions of monsters and suffering . . . and all her visions come true.
Soldier. Adventurer. Heir to the Legacy. Gerrard has, over the years, traveled much of Dominaria in search of fortune and glory. Now, after serving nobly in the Benalish army, he has returned to the *Weatherlight* to serve as captain in Sisay's absence and to take up the battle against the Lord of the Wastes.
"Death is no excuse for disobedience."
—Liliana Vess
"After the death of her mother, Cassia found that things that appear fragile can be very strong indeed."
—*Beyond the Great Henge*



"Not a surprise to see her on the podium. This paragon of tusk curvature is just the latest addition to the long championship lineage of Wildspeaker Ranch."
The tastiest morsels are found in the mazes of the mind.
No one spoke. There was no need. The threat of the Eldrazi presented a simple choice: lay down your weapons and die for nothing, or hold them fast and die for something.
"Oi oi oi, me gotta hurt in 'ere, Oi oi oi, me smell a ting is near, Gonna bosh 'n gonna nosh 'n da hurt'll disappear."
—Troll chant
"I was raised on stories of my ancestors, and I want to write my own pages in the tales."
"Dangerous to recognize. Deadly not to."
—Lazav

When elves find a fount of beauty, they protect it. Where there is beauty, there is hope.



I didn't think Mammoths could ever hold a candle to a well-trained battle horse. Then one day I turned my back on a drunken soldier. His blow never landed; Mi'cha flung the brute over ten meters.
Jund is a world as cruel as those who call it home. Their brutal struggles scar the land even as it carves them in its image, a vicious circle spiraling out of control.
"You tread upon the land all the time, yet you seem dismayed when it moves to step on you."
—Nissa Revane







"Oi oi oi, me gotta hurt in 'ere
Oi oi oi, me smell a ting is near,
Gonna bosh 'n gonna nosh 'n da hurt'll disappear." —Traditional
"My grandfather knew enough spells to fill a hundred scrolls. Nowadays, if a spell cannot fight the levelers, it is not even taught to our young."

Years of attempts have brought the goblins no closer to growing a sausage tree.


If you're smaller than the anaconda, it considers you food. If you're larger than the anaconda, it considers you a lot of food.
Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.
"Your potential to commit a crime warrants further investigation."
Elementals are ideas given form. This one is the idea of "smashitude."
"Even the greatest inferno begins as a spark. And anyone can snuff out a spark."
—Chanyi, mistfire sage





From its maw comes neither word nor whisper—only wind.
The pounding of his followers' hearts matched the beat of his hooves, and their voices echoed his bellows.

"The seas are vast, but the skies are even more so. Why be content with one kingdom when I can rule them both?"



She was ghastly, chalkily pale; the red seemed to have gone even from her lips and gums, and the bones of her face stood out prominently; her breathing was painful to see or hear.


"This town's only for good folk. The rest can go to the city."
—Joskun, An-Havva Constable
"An imperfection in the perfect world? We can't allow that."



Changing Rath's landscape is like tearing the scab from a wound.
"The elves tend the forest, and the forest sustains the elves. My role is to ensure that the cycle continues."
"Nope, no monsters in the forest. Nothing in there but squirrels."
—Joskun, An-Havva constable
Without the God-Pharaoh, there would be no Luxa. Without the Luxa, there would be no life.
Its plow wasn't designed for snow, but to carve a path through shrieking armies.



The Eldrazi hunger without limit and consume without pause.

"Everyone loves a dash of crushed pixie . . . except the pixie."
"I'll teach you the leyline paratrigonometrics, no problem. But you need to show me how to make that fiery swirly thing."
—Zimone, to Rootha

The path to knowledge is forged in hunger.

A pit yawned open, a column of oily smoke arose, and a towering form hissed, "I accept this offering."

The intricate dynamics of Rundvelt Goblin affairs are often confused with anarchy. The chaos, however, is the chaos of a thundercloud, and direction will sporadically and violently appear. Pashalik Mons and his Raiders are the thunderhead that leads in the storm.





His slaves crave death more than they desire freedom. He denies them both.
Some corpses the Golgari cannot claim. Some souls the Orzhov cannot shackle.


These beings embody the essence of true heroes long dead. Summoned from the dreamrealms, they rise to meet their enemies.




"The efreet is a striding storm with a voice that crackles like fire."
—Qhattib, vizier of Amiqat
The favored noisemaker of goblins ever since the wardens cracked down on explosives.



Rats and vultures devour. It desecrates.

"The Argivian University taught me two things: always look to the past, and never dismiss what appears useless."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator

"Sometimes I come across a stone finger or foot and I know I'm in cockatrice territory."
—Rulak, bog guide

"I was not chosen for my faith in the gods. Sometimes the gods must put their faith in us."
—Elspeth
"What do you have that I cannot obtain?"
—Mairsil, called the Pretender
A lonely sentinel facing gales, hurricanes, and tides of homicidal spirits.
With the evincars gone, flowstone became erratic and wild, a source of power for mages more desperate than wise.


Small words stoke large flames.
Succession is a matter of blood, and by blood it is often decided.
There's no prepared like overprepared.

A landslide of goblins poured toward the defenders—tumbling, rolling, and bouncing their way down the steep hillside.

Fire never dies alone.
War is a dance. And they're looking for partners.
"I take no pleasure in your suffering, but it is necessary. Once you accept your fate you'll find eternity more tolerable."
The dead that swept across Naktamun came in all shapes and sizes.


The militia formed up in the central plaza awaiting the onslaught, but the giants never quite made it.

"We fought so long to hide this place. Let us be first to learn its wonders!"




"Today a seashell fell from the empty sky here in Kinymu, a hundred leagues from the sea. I'm torn—shall I carve a woman or a bird?"
—Isel, master carver


"Perfect. Now do it again."

Giants know a solid hit is one part strength, four parts leverage.


Their skeletons can be found all over Skirk Ridge, tangled in each other's horns.




"Burn. Bleed. Enjoy."
—Cluestone inscription

"The raging waters had swept away trees, bridges, and even houses. My healers had much work to do."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest
The first to arrive on Dominaria from their distant home, the marids are the oldest tribe of djinn and the most respected by storm and sea.



To the elves, her spear is a compass; to the boggarts, a harbinger of doom.
"Can you catch a snowflake on the edge of your blade? Her sword has snagged an entire blizzard."
—Zogye, Ojutai mystic
"As my kha, he is the source of my inspiration. As my brother, he is the embodiment of my aspirations."
—Ajani Goldmane
The results of Rashmi's experimentation forced her to consider the possibility that multitudinous realities existed beyond her own.

Silumgar never passes up an opportunity to add to his opulence.

His enemies wondered if the lich king's brutal death and unnatural rebirth had been his plan all along.
The slith incubate in the Great Furnace's heat, emerging on Mirrodin's surface only when the four suns have aligned overhead.
"Lightning lives in everything, in living flesh and growing things. It must be set free."
—Rakka Mar
A hundred generations has he mentored, a hundred armies has he crushed beneath his feet, yet only a hundred words has he ever spoken, each more revered than a hundred books.


"Look deep into the Grail, and see there what you desire most."
—Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen





The most terrifying thing about the craw wurm is probably the horrible crashing sound it makes as it speeds through the forest. This noise is so loud it echoes through the trees and seems to come from all directions at once.
"Improvisation is for those who failed to prepare."
—Jace Beleren

Auntie Flint lent axes to Nibb and Gyik, thinking they'd share their experiences with her. She's still waiting for them to come back.
"I do not miss Jukai Forest. It is not my home. My home is Kamigawa, its people my family. Wherever I set my pack and rest my head, I am home."



"Isolation is not the answer."
—Urza, to Teferi
"That's the first time I've seen the ground do the running."
—Captain Brinely Rage
"It's gone mad! Loose the chains and save what you can!"

"Code Dark Donut! Code Dark Donut! All available fun specialists, please report to the Roil Coaster immediately!"
—Truss, chief engineer
"The snapper is still when all else moves
And strikes when all are dozing."
—*Tales of the Vintara Forest*



"Soaring is wasted on the winged."
—Edric, Spymaster of Trest
A soldier's faith is magic strong enough to protect against any blade.



Ask your query and be on your way. Just don't look her in the eye.
"The artificer assured me that the vial is strong enough to contain the dragon's breath. I just need to make sure to throw it far enough."
—Kunh Mei, last words
"Lava flows where it pleases. I'm just happy to be along for the ride!"
"We must rely on our own knowledge, not on the dogma of the seekers or the mutterings of the sphinxes."
—Tullus of Palandius
In the cellars beneath Narnam House, a strange and deadly garden grows.

"I have been brought to this place and I cannot leave. I may be free of the amber, but I am still in prison."
"For what are leaves but countless blades To fight a countless foe on high."
—Elvish hymn
"The unfathomable is upon us, students. I have no doubt you will rise to the occasion."
Lord Windgrace dedicated his life to restoring Urborg to its former glory.
"It is a rough road that leads to the heights of greatness."
—Seneca, *Epistles*, trans. Gummere
Wrap the flame as twine, Kingdoms will be thine.
Urza's metathran children were conceived, birthed, and nurtured by an integrated system of machines.





"Only the foolhardy would venture into the Akoum Mountains without a lullmage to tame the raging rocks and living fires."
—Sachir, Akoum Expeditionary House

Nothing can quell the Oriq's thirst for the forbidden secrets of the past.
New Capenna's demonic masters are quick to extinguish any hint of the angels' power reawakening.
Grixis is a world where the only things found in abundance are death and decay. Corpses, whole or in part, are the standard currency among necromancers and demons.


It hardly weighs anything, but it takes all day to remove.


"The wind smells of misfortune. Check your knots."
—Anitan, Ondu cleric


"Strength it has, but at the cost of a continuous supply of energy. Such failure can bear only one result."
—From the execution order for Endrek Sahr, Master Breeder

Silent as a snowdrift. Inexorable as an avalanche.







Goblins journey to the sacrificial peaks in pairs so that the rare survivor might be able to relate the details of the other's grisly demise.

Debates between wizards are never purely academic.

Make sure you bleed the fine print.

The flesh is dead and the life forgotten, but old habits persist.
"I prefer to let my sword do the talking."
"When the Silent King saw what had been done, he knew at last the true nature of the C'tan, and the doom they had wrought in his name."
—*The Book of Mournful Night*


A sphere pushes equally in all directions.
My thunder comes before the lightning; my lightning comes before the clouds; my rain dries all the land it touches. What am I? -Femeref riddle


"The essence of a lawful society is swift deterrence."
There's always room for one more.
"Those who endure in the face of suffering, those whose faith shines long in evil days, they shall see salvation."
—*Song of All*, canto 904


The roots preserved the armor for a hundred years, safeguarding it for a traveler in need.









'Twas in the bogs of Cannelbrae My mate did meet an early grave 'Twas nothing left for us to save In the peat-filled bogs of Cannelbrae.
They cover their territory like a tide of teeth and claws.




Born with wings of light and a sword of faith, this heavenly incarnation embodies both fury and purity.
All who listen hear their own song, a unique melody played just for them.
Each flower identical, every leaf and petal disturbingly exact.
"I fear no army or beast, but only the morning fog. Our assault can survive everything else."
—Lord Hilneth

"Fool! Never believe they're dead until you see the body!"
—General Varchild



The irritable drakes are solitary nesters. Even brooding females barely contain the urge to attack their own young.

"Your deed cannot be undone. You, however, can be."
—Agosto, Azorius imperator
Everybody knows that to ward off trouble, you knock on wood. But usually it's better to make a wall out of the wood and let trouble do the knocking.
Each time it is sent to find a safe haven, it takes longer to return.
"They are 'between' in every way."
—Lyna, Soltari emissary
Catastrophes happened so often at the mana rig that the viashino language had a special word to describe them.

"Trying to meet a worthy man in the wrong way is as bad as closing the door on an invited guest."
—Mencius, a Chinese philosopher

They envy the life-giving heat so much that they tear it from those who still possess it.



A gorilla chief must always be prepared to defend his crown. This leads to some pretty tough apes.


"I appreciate things that exceed expectations."
—Mizzix
Poets dream the verses of otherworldly stories. Artificers dream the blueprints of otherplanar artifacts.
Though many think of Wolves as solitary predators, they are actually extremely social animals. During a hunt they often call to each other, which can be quite unsettling for their prey.
In crystal-studded waters far below the surface, you've discovered an incubating egg of mysterious origin.
After a battle, it breaks the hillsides into manageable pieces to prepare for next time.
It's wise not to disturb an artist at work.
King or herder, the maggots care not.
"Sometimes even the smallest boon can save a life."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran Priest
"Into its maw went the seventh sea, never to be seen again while the world remains."
—Esper fable
He has nothing left but his resentment.
Golgari crops bloom in strange soils, touched only by long-traveled light.
The hound sniffed the air and let slip a low growl. General Takeno looked down at the faithful Isamaru and calmed him with a touch. "Alert the guard. The kami are coming."
"In the embrace of the great Nurgle, I am no longer afraid, for with His pestilential favour I have become that which I once most feared: Death."
—Kulvain Hestarius of the Death Guard
Only a focused mind can survive it.
"It wandered slowly across the landscape, calling out in its lonely voice, but no other castles answered its cries."
—*Beyond the Great Henge*



Take two steps north into the unsettled future, south into the unquiet past, east into the present day, or west into the great unknown.
"All rivers eventually run to the sea. My job is to sort out who goes first."
—Maeveen O'Donagh, Memoirs of a Soldier
"Why butcher an army when you can slash a single throat for the same result?"


When the established order falters, what remains are ordinary people and their struggle to survive.

Those who survive the test bear a mark of power anyone can recognize.
Dozens of spells known only to the Auriok elders were lost, but the next generation, galvanized by war, devised even more potent magic.
"Some of the other guys dared me to touch it, but I knew it weren't no ordinary hunk o' rock."
—Norin the Wary







"The colossal thing rumbled over the ridge, tree husks crumbling before it. The ones we were already fighting howled as it came, their muscles suddenly surging, and we knew it was time to flee."
—Llanach, Skyshroud ranger

A trick of the light, though momentary, can still be deadly.
Ground bones, broken glass, and splintered shipwrecks make up the sands of his shores.

He vowed he would never rest until he reached his destination. He doesn't know how right he was.


Zendikar's volatile mana is the basis for many spectacular spells—and some equally astonishing failures.
The nacatl called this new species "vetli," their word for poison arrows.

A true follower of Tourach took pride in achievement to the exclusion of other concerns.
"Time flows like a river. In Tolaria we practice the art of building dams."
—Barrin, master wizard


While trapping the Eldrazi on Zendikar, Ugin learned little from Sorin, but he gleaned the rudiments of lithomancy from Nahiri.
Despite the magic that sustains Gonti's life, the crime lord is often described as heartless.



Protected by glamers and guile, Glen Elendra harbors the elusive Oona, queen of the fae.



Lift your spear as you might lift your glass, and toast your enemy.

I didn't think Mammoths could ever hold a candle to a well-trained battle horse. Then one day I turned my back on a drunken soldier. His blow never landed; Mi'cha flung the brute over ten meters.



Aphetto's swamps are alive with the dead.



Many mages have been consumed by their work.




"Your desires have become our discretion."
—Izathel, priest of the Annex
Farrel and his followers became a formidable band of vigilantes, battling Icatians and followers of Tourach.


Atarka serving-goblins coat themselves with grease imbued with noxious herbs, hoping to discourage their ravenous masters from adding them to the meal.
Out chasing bears
—Kessig expression meaning "died in the woods"

"Her voice is insight, piercing and true."
—Ixidor, reality sculptor
Those wound tightest are first to unravel.
Urza studied the creations of the Thran not simply to learn from them, but to surpass them.




"Your laws, like your bones, were made to be broken."
The mountain will build your cairn of snow and ice and stone.
"Hup, two, three, four,
Dunno how to count no more."
—Mogg march
"As long as we have the will to fight, we are never without weapons."
—Koth of the Hammer
Many a besieged city has surrendered upon hearing the distinctive rumble of the juggernaut.


"It's just business."

When the sky's rain has turned to fire, what will put it out?
"We called them 'armored lightning.'"
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*
Mutated elves wondered if this was their final form, or if it was just another step.
"It's hard to hurt anyone when you're as transparent as your motives."
—Ertai, wizard adept
"How can we outrun the sky?"
—Hadran, sunseeder of Naya
A sandwurm can lie in wait beneath the sands for years until the slightest tremor alerts it to the presence of prey.
"Too dumb, and you end up a sibsig. Too smart, and you end up a meal. Mediocrity is the key to a long life."
—Mogai, Silumgar noble

"Why do these guys get such a bad rap? Is it the giant golden claws and teeth? The terrible stench? I think they're kinda cute."
—Crocodile Jackson, legendary cowboy
"Such deeds should be common fare for such as us."
—Anax, king of Akros




As long as one drop of the oil exists, the joyous work continues.
"The invaders cloak themselves in the shadows of dusk. Aerosaurs hide in the brilliance of the noonday sun."
—Caparocti Sunborn
The calm comes after the storm.


"The bloody din of invasion faded
And silent song rang through the woods again."
—"Song of Freyalise"


"Yawgmoth's corpse is a wound in the universe. His foul blood seeps out, infecting the land with his final curse."
—Lord Windgrace


"You can break nothing I cannot mend."





"No, no, and ... no."
After a hundred failed patent applications, Cornelian was stunned to find that no one had ever created a steam-powered autonomous ice cream delivery system. He immediately designed a gnome with scoops for hands.
"Zendikar will not surrender, and neither can we."


"My destiny is to save others so their destinies may be achieved."
Whenever the Llanowar Elves gather the fruits of their forest, they leave one plant of each type untouched, considering that nature's portion.
When she performed, she was on fire, but in a good way.



"I bring baubles of lore, lost secrets seined from the listening waves."





Trust is the only bridle a pegasus will accept.
After lightning struck the cliffs, the ore became iron, the iron became steel, and the steel became greaves. The lightning never left.
The ogres you know are nothing like the Onakke. Possessing both intellect and industry, they had brute strength without being brutish.
Eyes and arrows trained ever skyward.
The purest virtue burns brighter than the sun and hotter than dragonfire.



An explorer of the Æther, Tuknir often discovers himself in the most unusual physical realms.
Planeswalkers seek out great monuments throughout the Multiverse, knowing that their builders were unwittingly drawn by the convergence of mana in the area.
Ensconced in a slow time bubble that makes a five-minute ride take nine hours, the carousel is a very popular childcare option.
"Look, we both get what we want. I get your Halo. You get to keep your kneecaps."
When the earth shudders, the sky overflows.

"It saddens me to lose a source of inspiration. This one seemed especially promising."
—Ashiok

Hunters lure the stripling boar into the open, hoping to trap greater prey.
"Your life will set with the sun."




"Worlds turn in crucial moments of decision. Make your choice."
—Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran royal mage


"Hold the line, for family and the fallen!"
"Beware the gift when you do not know the giver."
—Chulane, Teller of Tales
Noted neither for their good looks nor their charm, manticores can be fearsome allies. As dinner companions, however, they are best left alone.
"A cliff once rose from the surf here—until Bjora Dawn-Greeter declared that it was blocking her view and pulled it down bare-handed."
—Iskene, Kannah storyteller
"Nothing has ever broken my heart so much as this—the betrayal of Soldev by my beloved machines!"
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist

"Don't stop chopping until the pieces stop wiggling."
—Rem Karolus, Slayer of Eldrazi

It's hard to shout "Shields up!" with a javelin in your chest.
There are only two rules of tactics: never be without a plan, and never rely on it.

"Only one thing beats the freedom of the sea: the freedom of the sky."
Only the foolish and the rich build their houses where the land is thin and the ocean is near.

"Only the pure stand tall in the light."
—Sigarda
"An expert always keeps their tools close at hand."


The shadow of the candle looms tall even as its light grows dim.

Part prison, part home.
The Izzet signet is redesigned often, each time becoming closer to a vanity portrait of Niv-Mizzet.
The giant-decorating contest at the migration festival is a tradition that may have started as a dare.
"The land gives up little, but we are masters of persuasion."
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
So long as the Halo keeps flowing, the festivities never end.

"The elves can hide better than most can look."
—Mwani, Mtenda herder
Agreements with demons seldom end at the grave.
While it possesses potent venom, the Giant Spider often chooses not to paralyze its victims. Perhaps the creature enjoys the gentle rocking motion caused by its captives' struggles to escape its web.


"Stay indoors, away from what seeps over the thresholds. This is the Demon's work, and only ill can come of it."
—Belko, owner of Titan's Keg tavern
"Be as water: untamed and unheld, yet inexorably flowing toward a greater goal."
—Shensu, Riverwheel mystic
When wielded by a true believer, it matters little whether the sword is a relic or a replica.
Baby dragons can't figure out humans—if they didn't want to be killed, why were they made of meat and treasure?

The Implicit Maze winds through Ravnica, connecting arcane landmarks of all ten guilds.
"I do not fear death. I know my soul will rise to Starnheim, where I will feast forever among valkyries and heroes. Can you say the same?"



"Trying to stop it would be foolish. If you feel it coming—run!"
—Sergeant Ryda
"The bones of allies grant wisdom. The bones of enemies grant strength. The bones of dragons grant life eternal."

A weapon of evil, redeemed in Gideon's hand.


"Look at that. Shuffling, wobbling, entrails placed haphazardly. It's shameful. Who would let that kind of work flap about for all to see?"
—Lestin, necromancer
"I am rooted in the life of all that thrives around me. You cannot move me."


"I swear, I just wanted a few extra hours to do my homework!"
—Petro, novice chronomancer
Like a meteor, it strikes from above without warning. Unlike a meteor, it then carries you off and eats you.
It is the demon's mark, an infernal claim on the flesh of the guilty.
"Many have sought snake-twined Pharika's panacea. Do you wish to share their fate?"



Korrigans, spirits bound to sources of water, shriek when they come upon their own drowned corpses.

Scholars had puzzled for centuries over the ruins at Tal Terig. Its secrets had always lived within one rune-carved head.
"The time has come for us to throw off the chains of tyrannical gods and antiquated superstitions."
—Tikaia, disciple of Uremides
"Ixalli's fertile rays enliven us all. Each of us is a testament to the sun's strength and love."
—Chitlati, Lightning Rider



Perfect for getting through to the consuls.






Fire finds its form in the heat of the forge.



With every end, a new beginning.
The cause remained unclear, but the fact was undeniable: nights were lengthening faster than in any autumn past.
"Your part in this fight is done, vampire. Get used to your thirst."


Inside even the humblest goblin lurks the potential for far greater things—and far worse.




"I and my kin remember the old ways. The frost whispers to me in a language too ancient for the Skoti usurpers to comprehend."
"The false god Xenagos treats the whole world as his rollick site. If his whims are left unchecked, Theros will be reduced to rubble and ashes."
—Elspeth

She protects the sacred groves from blight, drought, and the Unbeholden.
"The tiniest mouse speaks louder to me than all the festival crowds on Tin Street."

Yuri took up the ragged Boros banner, and his brethren, inspired by the act, followed him back into the fight.
"I am the purifier, the light that clears all shadows."
—Seal inscription
The gods known to the merfolk as Ula, Emeria, and Cosi were nothing more than false memories of a monstrous trinity: the Eldrazi titans Ulamog, Emrakul, and Kozilek.


"This device was submitted to the Fair anonymously. It is imperative that its maker be found. We must understand it."
—Confiscation directive




"If only the living were so easily salvaged."
—Memnarch
"The courier's death was regrettable, but then again, she was warned not to touch it."
—Lord Xander


"The most enlightened mages create beauty from violence."
—Medomai the Ageless
Things of beauty are in constant peril. The riders whisk them to safety, ahead of the encroaching darkness.
Atarka serving-goblins coat themselves with grease imbued with noxious herbs, hoping to discourage their ravenous masters from adding them to the meal.



Homarid shells are adapted to the crushing pressure of the deepest depths; on land, their sturdiness seems supernatural.


Built to crush walls and wills in equal measure.
Without the care of the tideshapers, the Lanes lie neglected. Some have flooded entire towns; others dried to cracked mud.



Nothing impresses goblins more than something that's bound to kill them.
The Orzhov contract the Izzet to animate slum districts and banish them to the wastes. The Gruul adopt them and send them back to the city for vengeance.
Two taken, two judged, one returned.

There's no known antidote for the cobra's venom . . . or its appetite.

"It is our third day of travel on the Yavimaya River, and still these creatures plague us. Davin Lansson, our naturalist, has facetiously labeled them 'gnats,' and the name has stuck."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry


Terms like "safe route" and "cleared district" are a source of dark humor to the cathars who patrol the ruins of Thraben.

The first morning after acquiring her familiar, the wizard awoke with fleabites and mange.
He wants to watch Ravnica burn, one soul at a time.
"I feel the vine-rhythm as my friends drive the beast to me. I will not miss my mark."
The League of Dastardly Doom takes the word "headquarters" very seriously.
Funded by the Azorius to keep current maps of the undercity, the Boros nav squads survey even the most unsavory areas.
"Don't laugh. It works."
—Yavimaya ranger


Each journey begins with a single step—and sometimes ends with that single step as well.

Inquisitors are taught scripture, philosophy, and the fine art of sharpening an axe.

Swift eyes to scout the way ahead.


"I have taught you all I can. Take this blade and rise as my equal."
If you fear the dragon's fire, you are unworthy to wield it.



He traded a lamp for a scepter, the scepter for a ruby, and the ruby for a simple rug.



He has the biggest bashing stick, so it's a safe bet he's the leader.
"You can't hope to comprehend the plans that are in motion."
—Tezzeret
"Controlling time ensures you need never look impulsive again."
—Teferi
Feed on food, you eventually rot. Feed on rot, you live forever.
—Kraul saying

"Hold on to your lunch!"
—Bartleby, gnome wizard

With heavy heart, Urza doused one world's light to rekindle another's.


As the bridge snapped, Berko was sure he heard the swamp laughing at him.
"My child grew from rot and ruin, yet she bloomed."
—Multani



"It's true I ask no fealty of the flocks—but surely we are more than mere beasts."
—King Darien of Kjeldor, in a missive to General Varchild
The waters of wisdom are as dust in the mouth of one who thirsts for power.

It doesn't purr. It hums.




A shadow of life chasing a husk of glory.
"Know one part of the name, obsession begins. Know two parts, paranoia sets in. Know three parts, madness descends. Know all, and only the kami know what will become of you."
—Lady Azami
"Often greatly outnumbered in battle, dwarves relied on catapults as one means of damaging a large army."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV*





They look human—until they bleed.


Even the small wounds let hope bleed out.




This is his domain, and while you remain here you must value all life as you value your own.

Unpredictable as the sea itself, water elementals shift without warning from tranquility to tempest. Capricious and fickle, they flow restlessly from one shape to another, expressing their moods with their physical forms.
Warriors of the Tsunami-nito School spend years in training to master the way of effortless effort.
If it can't be had here, it can't be had on any world.

Its territory is defined by wherever it is at the moment.
"Flesh is a betrayal of the self."
The perks aren't great.
The pits have their own form of mercy.


When the winds blow out of the abyss, death is the only harvest.



"Truth is always a weapon in your enemies' hands."
—Geth, Lord of the Vault
Everybody knows that to ward off trouble, you knock on wood. But usually it's better to make a wall out of the wood and let trouble do the knocking.
An audience of one with the malice of thousands.


"Trees are to be venerated and protected . . . except that one."
—Marel, Dawnhart witch

One last job before he retires.

At the end of the show, she stands alone on a stage brilliant with blood.
The path to growth is forged in balance.




Everything seems a little less ferocious when it's running from a house cat.
"Let the rest of Ravnica sneer. One way or another, they all end up in the undercity."
—Jarad
Two times the size, four times the smell.
"Charge brothers! Death to the false Emperor!"
To the uninitiated, the Ring of Renewal is merely an oddity. For those fluent in the wielding of magic, however, it is a source of great knowledge.


Sunseeders quest for areas of open sky. They train plowbeasts to beat back the dense jungle long enough to cultivate a crop.

The Phyrexian minds that constructed it did not live past its awakening.
"Don't stop till your horns come out their back."

"Guess where I'm gonna plant this!"
"The only action worth taking is one with an unknown outcome."

"The Origin Query will wait. We must ensure we survive to return to it."
—Pelyus, vedalken ordinar
"What else, when chaos draws all forces inward to shape a single leaf." —Conrad Aiken
Say hello to your new friend.

It makes the insignificant conspicuous, the repulsive alluring, and the deadly irresistible.

Paulo Vitor Damo da Rosa, World Champion XXVI

"The ride is clearly inspired by the Kolaghan clan's reign on Tarkir which makes the use of Ojutai's scale pattern on the seats very disappointing."
—Vorthos, Steward of Myth

Lu Su served as an intermediary between the Wu and Shu kingdoms until Zhou Yu's death in 210, when he became Wu's supreme commander.
"In the wild, white fur like mine is an aberration. We lack natural camouflage, but the inability to hide encourages other strengths."
—Ajani Goldmane
As the shadow of the Mephidross spread over the Tangle, the vampires' territory expanded.

He fashions stirring words with as much passion as a smith fashioning a warhammer.
"We just pay him and point him at problems."
—Aro, Sea Gate adventurer
"Nature is the ultimate mindless destroyer, capable of power and ferocity no army can match, and the Gruul follow its example."
—Trigori, Azorius senator



Instead of adapting to its environment, it adapts its environment to itself.
"Pain is a delusion of the weak. I'll demonstrate."
Only leonin clerics who can survive the Razor Fields for one turning of the suns can stand in the Cave of Light.
"The southern fortress taken by invaders? Heh, sure . . . when elephants fly."
—Brezard Skeinbow, captain of the guard



大蛇の領地には墓石が無い。死んだ戦士は木の苗と共に埋められ、死して後に森の一部となるのだ。

Windgrace's gladehunters hibernate in the quagmires of Urborg until the scent of Phyrexian technology awakens their hunger.
It felt the rumblings of war and uncoiled itself from the depths of the world.
The wurm's weave
—Elvish expression meaning "plowed fields"




It soars through currents of moonbeams to give hope to the forsaken.

Follow the light. In its absence, follow her.
Drakes claim to be dragons—until the dragons show up.

Shintan sensed the malice in his opponent, but he did not strike until the orc's muscles tensed in preparation to throw the first punch.
We encountered a valley topped with immense boulders and eerie rock formations. Suddenly one of these boulders toppled from its perch and sprouted gargantuan wings, casting a shadow of darkness and sending us fleeing in terror.
Whether mechanical or biological, life finds a way to propagate itself.

"As my kha, he is the source of my inspiration. As my brother, he is the embodiment of my aspirations."
—Ajani Goldmane

The goblins built it far larger than the cave opening, but to their glee, it smashed into the mountainside, ripping itself a new exit.

The stench in the hovel was overpowering; something loathsome was cooking. Occasionally something surfaced in the thick paste, but my host would casually push it down before I could make out what it was.
The orochi learned how to move swiftly and surely along the forest floor, like fish darting through gull-watched waters.


"And topples round the dreary west A looming bastion fringed with fire." —Alfred, Lord Tennyson, "In Memoriam"


Mirri did not have time to think, only to react.
"We must shake her limbs and rattle her brains."
—Grandmother Sengir


"Later we will mourn those we have lost. First we must end their suffering."
—Drana, Kalastria bloodchief

Senators of Azorius often hired agents to spy on the Selesnya. They were told to record every spore and root they saw, as each could become a deadly foe.

"Hence 'banishèd' is banished from the world, / And the world's exile is death."
—William Shakespeare,
*Romeo and Juliet*


The darkness of his shield reflects the inky blackness of his soul.

"I decide what stands in my way."

"Although Icatia's Combat Medics borrowed much of their knowledge from other societies, their skills were their own."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. VI*
"Now I know why they call it Shatterskull Pass. Rocks fell all night like hammers smashing an anvil. It's no wonder the giants are angry all the time."
—Mitra, Bala Ged missionary
In the memories of those they lost lies the strength needed to defend their city.
"There are always fools who attempt to traverse Kruin Pass before sundown and every time they wind up in a race for their lives."
—Old Rutstein


One who is marked by a demon in life is sure to be remembered as one in death.


Long ago, the solitary gnarr was a sign of good luck. Now they have become wild pack hunters, a sign of impending danger.
Its mortar is mixed with waters straight from the Fountain of Cho.
Elves of the immaculate class weave flora into living creatures—sometimes to endorse an elite warrior, sometimes to create a breathing work of art.


There is no dress code for the Inventors' Fair, but you'll be hard-pressed to find anyone or anything not done up in their finest.
Tomorrow belongs to those who prepare for it today.
It was a night like any other. It would soon become a night no one would ever forget.

Elementals are ideas given form. This one is the idea of "smashitude."
"Creation without connection to nature is just manufacture."


Little dreamt could seem so cruel As waiting for the wings outspread, The jagged teeth, the burning eyes, And dagger-claws that clench to nerves.
The deep sleep of winter is not always restful.

"The final stage of the illness: delirium, convulsions, and death."
—Phyrexian progress notes
"The powers of the corrupt will fade before the fury of the pure."
—Bethan Leitbur, "The Way"




"Torahn gore these shifty fishtails! You can't even get close to one."
—Tahngarth of the *Weatherlight*

"Mine."

Avacyn's holy warriors kept hope alive in her darkest hours. Now they will carry that hope across Innistrad.
"What we do not use up, we use again."
—Urza
So Griselbrand was bound,
his rage brought to a halt.
'Til Lili Vess came 'round
asking, "Hey, what's in the vault?"
—*INNISTRAD! The Musical*






All the angel saw was her doom.
"Jarad fancies himself king of the undercity, but he's merely king of rot."



"Folks 'round here are too in love with their contraptions. Does them some good if we smash one every so often."

Pity the tailor.
The first line of defense against Urza and Mishra, the Artifact Blast achieved widespread fame until an unlucky mage discovered it was useless on the devices the brothers had already created.
No thought but hunger. No strategy but destruction.



The king of Yavimaya's waters pays constant attention to his subjects . . . and thrives on their adulation.


"It's the must-have gift for everyone on your list. Get one for yourself, too!"
—Chammi, curio vendor



And would you strip the bark from a treefolk?
—Elvish expression meaning "Are you crazy?"




"What could be funnier than one big pie to the face? Unless . . . no. Could it be that simple?"
—Pietra, Crafter of Clowns

The energy that infuses the rings with life also melts them away, leaving only useless puddles of slag.
"Scouts of the Sakura Tribe spent two years wandering the forest to learn every leaf and tree. That knowledge was called upon during the Kami War to ensure the orochi's survival."
—*The History of Kamigawa*


"Trapmaking is an art. The trap is a corporeal riddle, a battle of wits between its creator and whatever it lures inside."
About halfway to the target, Snukk vowed that he had been tricked for the last time.
A fiery scourge for both flesh and soul.
A sword that has seen cowardice in battle exacts the price of honor from its wielder.


"They believe they're driving us back, but we're leading them to their doom."
—Kethek, furnace stoker
Gemini (May 21—June 21) This week is a good time to branch out and meet others. But don't forget your roots. Avoid commitments and open flames.
"This is the final trial! Rejoice, for the God-Pharaoh soars among us!"





Guarding the ship is the Thornwinds' first concern. Getting along with the locals ranks fourth or fifth at best.
The harsher the winter, the more glorious the spring.
—Yavimaya saying
The favored noisemaker of goblins ever since the wardens cracked down on explosives.
"We wait and watch, and as we prepare for war, we grow strong."
"Every choice alters the path of fate."
—Sarkhan Vol



"When churchyards yawn and hell itself breathes out/ Contagion to this world."
—William Shakespeare, *Hamlet*
"To send the common people to war untrained is to throw them away."
—Confucius, The Analects (trans. Lau)
"Try to pretend like you understand what's important."

"The seas are vast, but the skies are even more so. Why be content with one kingdom when I can rule them both?"

"Great art can never be created without great suffering."
"Vengeance is the echo of the victim's own crime."
—Grensch, merrow cutthroat
"Strapping on nine hundred pounds of armor every morning would make any warrior cross."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*
Where air meets water, fish meets talon.







They have to replace the wheels, they have to replace the boar, and sometimes they have to replace the goblin.
"You will be reimbursed for your donation.""The reimbursement is spiritual."
—Temple signs

The goblins made an unruly pile with military precision.
The staff unraveled in a chaotic chorus of clanging, becoming an improbable beast of hissing blades.
Even within the chapel's hallowed halls, the devils' laughter pierced his prayers.



Its ferocity is tempered by patience, knowing it must wait for just the right moment to strike a killing blow.
"Your god teaches you only how to kill. Karametra teaches me to defend what I hold dear. That is why I will prevail."



"If you're going to run for cover, you should start now."
"Strike those abominations down. Let their names rot with their remains."
—General Kudro

The first thing the mist chills is the mind. Victims never cry out or even murmur in surprise.

The profits from that night barely paid for the damages.
"I sing of benevolence and mercy, of golden wings bringing comfort to the meek and downtrodden."





"We are all decaying, always in a state of near-death. One moment without breath and we begin to break down."
—Cevraya, Golgari shaman


Paradoxically, to tilt the massive jug for a sip, you'd need the energy of the giant's tonic.
Not a mote of dust escapes the dutiful cleaners that keep the exclusive Prakhata Club immaculate.

"The ainok are wild dogs, not fit to join us around the fire."
—Surrak, the Hunt Caller



"It is not my place to question Radiant's rule. I exist to enforce her will."

It is ancient, immense, and irresistible.

"Your deed cannot be undone. You, however, can be."
—Agosto, Azorius imperator
It traps an explosion within its stony skin.
The lava-proof shells of akki evolved over centuries, as akki pranks almost always got seriously out of hand.
The barbarians of Pardia are long dead, but its mountains still smolder with rage.
"Let the others bicker over their little worlds and stars. I have an empire of knowledge, and it encompasses all others."
—Trazyn the Infinite
The strength of one. The courage of ten.
"This sword is Sunrise. The other is Dawn. They mark the beginning of my days but the end of yours."
Few things are more valuable than time or money—and Leovold has plenty of both.
All who listen hear their own song, a unique melody played just for them.
"From up here we can drop rocks and arrows and more rocks!" "Uh, yeah boss, but how do we get down?"



"We orphans of Fyndhorn have found no welcome in this alien place."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter
"You have led us to triumph over the forces of Mogis!" said Brygus the Brave, clapping the Champion on the back. The Champion wiped the sweat and blood from her brow. "I count eight graves," she said. "Too many to call this a victory."
—*The Theriad*
"All are welcome in the angels' light."
The greatest challenge isn't the stifling heat but the crushing weight of those who failed before.
"Time for you to meet the brains of this operation!"
—The Big Idea
"I'd stand back if I were you."

"Open grave available, only one previous tenant."
—Sign on cemetery gate

D'Haren stared at the twisted lump of metal that had been a prized artifact. The fight was getting ugly.

If everything in the Gurmag Swamp hungers for human flesh, what bait could be more effective?






Good strategists seize opportunities. Great strategists make their own.
"Let Balduvia burn to warm Kjeldor's hearth!"
—General Varchild






Fire giants love to fight on a large scale, and Duke Zalto is one of the greatest warmongers of his age.
"Even gods shall kneel."
—Nicol Bolas
History forgot her name but not her victories.
These beings embody the essence of true heroes long dead. Summoned from the dreamrealms, they rise to meet their enemies.



"Halana grew brambles to create a barricade around our camp, hoping that it would keep the wolves out. That was a mistake for which we almost paid dearly."
—Alena, trapper of Kessig



What if they threw a war, and *everybody* came?
Quintorius beamed, his mind eager to absorb every historical fact the spirit wanted to divulge.
"Fear neither clouds nor darkness. The light shall overcome them all."
"Through the blood of the wicked, we shall be redeemed. Let us pray."

"They gave their lives to strengthen the Order's armies, until they declined this honor in favor of joining the Thrull Rebellion."
—Jherana Rure, Counter-Insurgency Commander


Hobgoblins are best left alone. They sharpen their farm implements far more than is necessary for their work in the fields.
"These Sorcerers always seem to have another surprise up their sleeves."
—Zur the Enchanter



"We need not fear the forces of the air; I've yet to see a Spider without an appetite."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, Elvish Hunter
Even when fate is already written, there's always time to change the names.

"Archers, ballistae—you can't even get near the island of Avenant."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*
"Woven together, strands of aether can form a mesh of surprising stability, though such a network tends to pull power from nearby devices."
—Consulate engineer's log
They wait in darkened depths, laughing eagerly.



Nothing is sacred to rats. Everything is simply another meal.
Steel never forgets the strike of the forge.

2003 Vintage Championship Winner




"Mold could catch you."
—Suq'Ata insult


"Better to starve to death than be bored to death."
—Liliana Vess
When Asha left Bant, she ensured that the world would have protection and order in her absence.
"Death never stops to rest. Neither can we."

"There are some who have lost everyone and everything. They actively seek out the Eldrazi, eager for the smallest measure of vengeance."
—Munda, ambush leader



"Yes, I think 'toast' is an appropriate description."
—Jaya Ballard, Task Mage

At the academy, "show and tell" too often becomes "run and hide."

"To see past the veil of death, cross it."
—*The Red Book of Mezdrithalik*




She wished for a weapon, but not for the skill to wield it.

Ravnicans still tell tales about the Battle of Sumala where four Selesnya sentries held off an entire clan of Gruul warriors.




". . . [B]efore honor is humility."
—*The Bible*, Proverbs 15:33
"There is great wisdom in rushing headlong into combat . . . if you're prepared."
—Kenjek, captain of the Thousand Swords

Goblins in the first wave of a fire raid always bemoan the aim of everyone else.
Battle tempers soldiers as fire tempers steel.
The goblins call the gliders "death from above." Everyone else calls them "clods in the clouds."


"No one will ever ride me again, Gideon. Expect no further favors."
—Rakdos



It rarely moves, standing stock still in its clearing. When it does stir, ravens stop their cawing and crickets their chirping. All of nature watches in awed silence.
Dominaria's most extravagant crypt nevertheless holds an empty grave.


Immolation is the sincerest form of flattery.
"Tempered in the blood of ten thousand sacrifices? Superstitious drivel."
—Mishra, note to his researchers

"I've broken three swords, eighteen lances, and countless shields, but this little blade has survived every battle, just like I have."
The Rakdos put the "fun" in "funeral."
"And you were almost finished with that ritual, weren't you, darling? How very rude of me. To make it up to you, I'll send you an invitation to my wedding."
Most myr monitor other species. Some myr monitor other myr.

"Nothin' beat surprise—'cept rock."
"Fate is not as fixed as you might think."
"A responsible king walks among his subjects."
"I am light. I am dark. I must give my life to serve; not even death can release me."
—Selenia, dark angel

"I now believe the strange orb was some kind of Thran security device. Supporting this theory, I can no longer recall where I found it."
—Tocasia, journal entry


Even the brave have cause to tremble at the sight of Sivitri Scarzam. Who else has tamed Scarzam's Dragon?


The Azorius symbol stares down like a great eye, reminding visitors of the watchful presence of Isperia and her lawmages.

Akoum can make any intruder look small.



"Darkness always flees from the light, and I am the breaking dawn."
—Kordain, luminarch of Kabira

Thunder isn't all that follows lightning.

"You were so eager to take and consume. Yet when asked to give, you refuse?"


The seafloor is strewn with the wreckage of Vodalia's would-be conquerors.

As they learn to fly, young drakes have a tendency to accidentally impale trees, cliffs, and unsuspecting students.

No battle means more to a Mardu warrior than the one that earns her war name.


"Oh, for heaven's sake, of course it was a death threat! What did you think was in an envelope like that, a wedding invitation?"
@-Magistrate's assistant


The fastest way across the dunes is above.

What the initiates face in the final trial is completely at Hazoret's discretion.


"Our unity humbles our foes."

It doesn't point north. It points home.
"I'll put my sword down only to die. And I don't plan on doing that today."

"Where'd all the birds go?"
—Kaldrin, jungle sightseer
"Only the weak imprison themselves behind walls. We live free under the wind, and our freedom makes us strong."
—Zurgo, khan of the Mardu

"Nyx may belong to the gods, but the skies of Theros are ours."
Its material may not be precious, but the minds it protects are.
The giant had heard of locks, but he had yet to discover a door he couldn't open.
As Glissa searches for the truth about Memnarch, Bosh searches to unearth the secrets of his past.
"Let them complain. As long as the addictive ink is working, we can do anything we want." PLAY AT YOUR OWN RISK
A hundred generations has he mentored, a hundred armies has he crushed beneath his feet, yet only a hundred words has he ever spoken, each more revered than a hundred books.
The profits from that night barely paid for the damages.

The elite guard of the Mesa High Priests, the Ivory Guardians, were created to protect the innocent and faithful. Some say their actions are above the law.

"If the system is broken, break the system."
—Domri Rade

Solitude drove the old hermit insane. Now he only keeps company with those he can catch.

"Yes, Boros tactics are unparalleled. But when your comrades are dying around you, inner strength must carry the day."
—Gideon Jura, to Aurelia

Some ainok of the mountains are accepted among the Temur as trusted hunt-mates.
"Just relax—I brought in a substitute."










Deserts of industrial ash surround the hive cities, covering the surface of the planet with an unstable, corrosive skin.
Enlightenment is the mundane seen from the vantage point of the divine.
Occasionally members of the Institute of Arcane Study acquire a taste for worldly pleasures. Seldom do they have trouble finding employment.

Bones scattered around us joined to form misshapen bodies. We struck at them repeatedly—they fell, but soon formed again, with the same mocking look on their faceless skulls.

Action: Show a kithkin (see pg. 28) emerging from under the ground where he was buried.



When a changeling adopts a form no other changeling has taken, a rune appears in the caverns of Velis Vel to mark the event.
It was only then—to his infinite sorrow—that Gork realized hornets don't make honey.
Infinite possibilities contained in a finite space.
"It has been my experience that disasters like to strike in pairs."


Some roads are paved with bad intentions.

"I see the weaknesses you hide even from yourself."

An inferno is just a gesture away.
Vengeance in stampede form.









"We must rely on our own knowledge, not on the dogma of the seekers or the mutterings of the sphinxes."
—Tullus of Palandius

They are the first to greet dissenters on their journey into exile.


Nature's strength outlives the strong.



The only sound was the gentle clicking of the Faeries' wings. Then those intruders who were still standing turned and fled. One thing was certain: they didn't think the Scryb were very funny anymore.


Nomad youths aspire to one of two roles in the tribe: priest or warrior. Their secret dream is to become both.


"By the time your knees have worn through your robe, you may have begun to learn your place."

A light to bring hope in dark times.
"Some gaze upon the forest and see trees. I see true power."
"If you must die today, make your death worthy of legend."
—Alesha, Who Smiles at Death

"Amateurish. Nearsighted. A waste of my time and everyone else's."
—Indra, nullmage of Vectis
Quick enough to avoid jhovalls when alone and fierce enough to attack them in packs, the hounds were as at home in the mountains as the Mercadians were atop theirs.



Giants and pit spawn attempted to topple the cathedral's pillars. The fine grit of their remains still swirls in the breeze outside.

"Sometimes it's best for the lost to stay lost."
—Herzag, mayor of Havengul

Calling it a "petting zoo" really saved on the cages.
An ageless order, the votaries receive the gift of rejuvenation from the temple gardens they guard.

"You take our wilds, we take your city."
The Soul of the World has returned.
Urza always put Tocasia's lessons on resource-gathering to effective use.
Most auramancers would have let the spikes hover just above the skin. Having the spikes rip through the skin from beneath was a touch added by Rakdos himself.
"Their guards are soft, ready to welcome a sharp dagger."
The flasks provide ballast, a means of steering, and—with a little luck—a way to deliver ward-spells to cohorts below.

"Somehow it warps the Æther. It brings a strange weight, a blockade in the flow of spellcraft."
—Noyan Dar, Tazeem lullmage
A living fossil active after eons of dormancy.

"Shut the gates. In the Underrealm we will outlast the coming doom."
—Vraska
Inspiration is red as rubies, flowing like honeyed wine.


"If this world could make a wish, it would be to survive the parasites who loot its treasures and threaten its life force."
—Saidah, Joraga hunter
Otto the Hunter was filled with many grand ambitions. The snake was filled only with Otto.

"I admit, I am a creature of the city. The sights, the nightly excitement, the abundance of fine drink . . ."

It is said that Yinglong gave birth to the qilin and the phoenix, and after them, all of the hairy and winged beings in the world. Thus it is known as the Ancestor Dragon.


The Cabal soldier blinked and found day had become night, he had a face full of thistle seeds, and the old man was nowhere to be seen.



"People are often humbled by the elements. But the elements, too, can be humbled."
—Surrak, khan of the Temur
"They're not worth much, but they're easy to catch."


There are many ruins, but there used to be many more.

Treated with a powerful mix of herbs and potions, its wrappings have a remarkable preservative effect, even for the living.
On Jund, everything eventually ends up in something else's stomach.


"Take the sharp metal stick and make a lotta holes."
—Jula, goblin raider




"Today's the last day you'll fear sewer crocs, Garg. Form now on, the sewer crocs will fear you."



The shaman opened the earth beneath their feet, trapping the survivors within the crevices of Ayagor for Atarka to devour at her leisure.
First name, Danger. Last name, also Danger.
"Until that day I cursed the angels, those uncaring lights in the sky. They rewarded my scorn with the gift of time, every year of which I've spent in devotion to their names."
—Torian Sha, soul warden




Take two steps north into the unsettled future, south into the unquiet past, east into the present day, or west into the great unknown.
Each volume contains wonders.
Millennia of constant warfare have left many planets with very little worth fighting over.

For the first time in his life, Grakk felt a little warm and fuzzy inside.

"No worthwhile reward is easily gained."
—Nicol Bolas



He was left with just enough memory to understand what he had lost.


She provides marks of protection to those she chooses as family.
Its collapse is like the lashing out of a long-dead civilization that resents being forgotten.
Many who cross Sorin's path come down with a sudden and fatal case of being-in-the-way-of-a-millennia-old-vampire.
All bark, someone else's bite.

Mist is the geists' sorrow. Wind is their pain. Fire is their vengeance.
Two times the size, four times the smell.
All those who trade in questions must answer to the Dimir.
"I love what they've done with the place."
—Liliana Vess

Beneath the gaze of angels, only the righteous may stand without fear.
She chooses her riders carefully and bears them to glory in battle after battle.
"I have no clan, but I still have purpose."
"You have almost completed your four years, my son. Soon you shall be a skyknight."
—Arna Kennerüd, skyknight
The bears wade into time rifts to feed. They do not fear the storms, and they are quick enough to snatch prey just as it blinks in or out of time.


The detail really makes the monsters jump off the page.

"How is it the legged engines seem so much more alive than their wheeled counterparts? Simply, they were born, not made."
—Mishra
"Beautiful, isn't it?" crowed Crovax. "They fought together. Now they will die together."


Not dryad, centaur, or avatar but life itself.

The continent of Ondu is a vast plateau crisscrossed by deep trenches and meandering rivers.

"I watched it pass at a distance. When I looked back to my companions, Najet was dead."
—Akiri, kor line-slinger
The Mardu warrior was overjoyed when Tasigur set him free and granted him passage through the jungle. He failed to notice the Sultai leader's cruel smile.






"No one chooses to be stitched together into a skaab. If it could speak, it would beg for its own destruction."
—Thalia, Knight-Cathar
Kithkin jealously hoard their knowledge of poultices and remedies so that no outside threat can benefit from their wisdom.


Mirrodin's artificial environment requires its own predators, scavengers, and senseless forces of nature.
"Geralf's prowess continues to grow. He can now replicate my own creations with near-perfect accuracy."
—Ludevic's laboratory notes


"If you've been at this as long as I have, nothing can surprise you. That's the hope, at least."

"Monsters will no longer find safety under the mists of Morkrut!"
—Bruna, Light of Alabaster
"We've bred out the shortcomings of the species' natural form and replaced them with assets of our own design."
—Momir Vig
"A crafter must imbue her weapon with part of her soul—something the Phyrexians are incapable of doing."
—Melira
"Freyalise has cleansed our bodies and minds of the plagues of Kjeldor; all she asks in return is that we keep pure our newly given home in Fyndhorn."
—Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order



"Braid her branches, life fulfilling Goddess loving, Goddess killing."
—Citanul chant
"People are often humbled by the elements. But the elements, too, can be humbled."
—Surrak, khan of the Temur



The form of the sigil is just as important as the sigil itself. If it's carried on a medallion, its bearer is a master. If it's tattooed on the body, its bearer is a slave.
"The stronger our enemies seem, the more vulnerable they are."
—Sultai secret
"Goblins charge with a deafening war cry. The cry doesn't mean anything—it just drowns out the drums!"
—Reod Dai, mercenary

In their final moments, the demons gazed upon grace in its purest form.


"Now I can dedicate myself fully to zoetimancy and void theory!"
The orcs' banner sends a clear message: "Stand against us and meet the same fate as the goblins."



Life is such a fragile thing.
Immolation is the sincerest form of flattery.


When breaking someone's face once just isn't enough.


In life, they were a motley crew: farmers, lords, cutpurses, priests. In death, they are united in singular, benevolent purpose.




"What was once formed by masons, shaped by smiths, or given life by mages, I will return to the embrace of the earth."
The carnage of conflicts long past still stains the Otarian soil.
His slaves crave death more than they desire freedom. He denies them both.







Unable to touch items of value, he goes forth to steal secrets instead.

"There was no trace
Of aught on that illumined face . . . ."
—Samuel Taylor Coleridge, "Phantom"
Innistrad is a place where dreams invade the mind and mere shadows exact a terrible toll.


Even the most virtuous person is only one secret away from being owned by the Cabal.
Knowing the Hymn's power, the followers of Leitbur carefully guarded their pillaged transcriptions.


Its breath doesn't assault the senses. It pollutes the mind.

Survival itself is no small reward.

"Send your champion. I could use a light workout."


"After death you face paradise, damnation, or Tariel."
—Priest's teaching
In the final days before the disaster, all the crabs on Tolaria migrated from inlets, streams, and ponds back to the sea. No one took note.
"Fire is the universal language."
—Jhoira, master artificer





"You have done your best. I give you leave to rest."



"I will follow the light of Iona into battle, and I will know no fear."
The battle of Puyang marked the beginning of the end for Lu Bu. He lost the city—and later his life—to Cao Cao.

When Sarkhan saved Ugin in Tarkir's past, it changed Tarkir's future. The Sultai no longer exist, having been supplanted by the dragonlord Silumgar and his clan.

On Jund, the deep canyons were the best places to hide. When the goblins wandered into Naya, they found that was not so true.



"I search for a vision of Zendikar that does not include the Eldrazi."
—Expedition journal entry
"Watch carefully. The gap between death and victory is thinner than your blade."
Trust is the only bridle a pegasus will accept.




"Subtlety is for lawmages and spies."

Jamuraan farmers fear three things above all else: droughts, floods, and hornclaws.

When civilization encroaches on nature, Zendikar encroaches back.
Who wants to see a picture of a big hairy ass?



"Angels are simply extensions of truth upon the fabric of life—and there is far more dark than light."
—Baron Sengir
The most beautiful souls shine even in death.
Ziatora's second-in-command has a habit of appearing when and where her enemies least expect her.

It is the forest beyond the horizon, the mountain waiting to be climbed, the new land across the endless sea.




As Sigarda and Sorin battled, Arlinn and Teferi recovered the key from the Markov catacombs.
"Death has seeped into every part of this plane. I can feel it on my skin and taste it like sand in my mouth."
—Nissa Revane
Between the thunderous footfalls of Naya's behemoths lie moments of perfect quiet.
"Subsequent efforts to deconstruct this facility will be punished with increasing severity."


When generals gather their armies, healers gather their herbs.
One mogg to aim the catapult, one mogg to steer the rock.

Folk of good heart will always find a home.


"He displays a perverse charisma fueled by avarice. Highly dangerous. Recommend civil sanctions."
—Agmand Sarv, Azorius hussar

"Purge the damned, for they have no place among the righteous!"
—Seeta of Thraben
Tap beverages with extreme caution.





"We fight not for Avacyn, but for her ideals; not for the church, but for its people."
—Thalia, Guardian of Thraben
Even after all that befell Amonkhet, Gideon never believed that his trust in Oketra was misplaced.
"Living scarecrows make a mockery of the natural order. Dead ones make fine hats."



The Blackblade determines not who is right, but who is left.


During their endless travels, the mages of the Goma Fada caravan have learned ways to harness both life and death.


"I feel in them a sense of duty and commitment, yet I can feel nothing else. It is as if their duty is to an empty void."
—Razia
"Those who seek to upset the balance must be taxed for such ambitions."
—Verithain, mesa high priest


She formed a friendship with several playful spirits, and soon "the pack" was known as the source of much mischief in Eiganjo.

Recent research suggests these creatures were invented by Urza's and Mishra's original master, Tocasia, and that both brothers used them.
Loyal to a fault, it anticipates its master's every need.

"It is the work of sorcery. Burn it!"
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, Elvish Hunter


"It is not yet time."
"There's more than one way to skin an Ouphe—or thwart a mage."
—Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran Royal Mage
"Another failure," grumbled the toymaker. She slammed the door with such gusto that she failed to notice the eyes watching her.
"You didn't say the Magic word."
"You call *that* a nightmare?"
—Braids, dementia summoner
It took the banning of temporal manipulation at Tolaria West to teach its students the value of time.
"I simply cannot let crimes against fabulosity go uncorrected."

"The efreet is a striding storm with a voice that crackles like fire."
—Qhattib, vizier of Amiqat
"Storm-tossed and broken, Callaphe cried out to deep-dwelling Thassa.
Tritons came swiftly to save her, bringing her north to the Lindus."
—*The Callapheia*





The Mirari called to the centaurs, and all who heard it were forever changed.

"I need never remember my past associates, my victims, my mistakes. Innistrad preserves them all for me."
—Sorin Markov
"It's a ghoul-eat-you world out there. Follow my orders if you want to survive."

As long as one drop of the oil exists, the joyous work continues.

"Catch good today. Start replacing crew tomorrow."
—Faysal al-Mousa, fisher captain, log
His battle cry unleashes an avalanche of dwarves.

"I will go to any length to achieve my goal. Eternal life is worth any sacrifice."
—Zur the Enchanter

"Dangerous to recognize. Deadly not to."
—Lazav




Winners of the Iroan Games are forever remembered as heroes of their people.
"The hum of the universe is never off-key."
—Mystic elder

She knows the names and secrets of each of Esper's twenty-three winds.
"The judges really put them through their paces, but they prevailed. I think they even impressed Head Judge Tezzeret."
—Ritika, artificer


The assassins of the Ochran distill toxins from the remains of their previous victims.


One footstep among many is silent. One footstep alone is deafening.

To the last, Bontu wanted only to be first among the God-Pharaoh's subjects.

Sometimes death comes knocking. Sometimes it tears down the walls.
When Selesnya missionaries moved into the Shanav Quarter, they faced scorn, ridicule, and ultimately martyrdom.
The tide of magic brought them here. Now it would take them home.
"With no further options, I was forced to don the mask."
—Rashida Scalebane


"Although I would give my life to protect Gerrard, my conscience will not let me take another's. There are many who would not hesitate."
—Karn, silver golem






"I am the first line of defense. You will not encounter the second."
"The Lowlands refuse to suffer at the whims of the High City."

Its collapse is like the lashing out of a long-dead civilization that resents being forgotten.
"I ask you, one who has returned to arms of nature, what dreams await in the slumber of death?"
Through his allies, Meng Huo commanded several hundred thousand troops composed of cavalry, rattan-armored warriors, infantry, naked men with swords, and wild animals.

The form of the sigil is just as important as the sigil itself. If it's carried on a medallion, its bearer is a master. If it's tattooed on the body, its bearer is a slave.

An emblem of a secret guild, the Dimir insignia is seen only by its own members—and the doomed.
Despite its ferocity, its favor can be won with a gift of something it's never seen before.
Unaware of Lorwyn's diversity, it sees only itself, reflected a thousand times over.
Hot wind whipped up as if the weather itself wanted to fight Phyrexians.


It took three years for it to occur to him to use the chain as a weapon, but once it did, he made up for lost time.

"To wage war, secure peace within yourself."
—Emmara

Rakdos festivals almost leave enough rubble in their wake to hide the bodies.



"Words are pointless. It's what you do with your hammer that counts."
The merfolk call the sky goddess Emeria. The kor call her Kamsa. The two races agree on little except that she offers many blessings to the faithful.
"Nothing is too broken to mend."

"Slivers are evil and slivers are sly; And if you get eaten, then no one will cry."
—Mogg children's rhyme
He knows the name of every elf born in the last four centuries. More importantly, they all know his.
They seek out living trees to glean age-old secrets from sap and wood.
Not all of Terisiare's flooding was natural . . . .
It has a hundred thousand extinctions to avenge.


"The end is justified in being mean. Or something like that."

"I can't hear them scream, but at least I don't have to listen to them beg."
—Phage the Untouchable
A bored wizard once created a vizzerdrix out of a bunny and a piranha. He never made *that* mistake again.
"Do you smell something burning?"




"In memories, we can find our deepest reserves of strength."
The stadium tests more than just fighting skill. For example, swimming ability.
"Fear of fire is a sensible instinct. If I were you, I'd be terrified."


All skyships entering or leaving the fairgrounds must pass through the security checkpoint.
Firemane Nevena led the victorious assault on the Barbu Rooftop rebels. Now the Gateless have marked her for death.
Some flamekin warriors explore the art of coherence, an ancient discipline that harnesses the chaos of fire and focuses it with pinpoint precision.





"A good steed will carry you home. A great steed will carry you to glory."
—Syr Alin, the Lion's Claw
"What's their strike range, you ask? Let's put it this way: sagittars aim their bows using *maps*."
—Otak, Tin Street shopkeep
The path to power is often paved with atrocities.








"A crafter must imbue her weapon with part of her soul—something the Phyrexians are incapable of doing."
—Melira, sylvok outcast
Upon impact with a planet's surface, a tyranocyte's bloated belly bursts open, disgorging a horde of Tyranid invaders.


As Gerrard made his escape, the wurm covered his flight by helping itself to three great mouthfuls of merfolk.
"The good news is that the migrating drakes are no longer a problem."
—Bell Migellic, Azorius hussar







'Twas in the bogs of Cannelbrae My mate did meet an early grave 'Twas nothing left for us to save In the peat-filled bogs of Cannelbrae.





The spirit dragon Ugin arranged the hedrons of Zendikar to direct leylines of energy. To disrupt one is to unleash devastation and chaos.

While it's true most Dragons are cruel, the Shivan Dragon seems to take particular glee in the misery of others, often tormenting its victims much like a cat plays with a mouse before delivering the final blow.
"Pain teaches lessons no scholar can."
—Kamahl, pit fighter
"Whichever side wins, I'm sure the banquet will be superb."





Nomads weave tales thicker than tapestries.

"A flash of the lightning, a break of the wave, He passes from life to his rest in the grave."
—William Knox, "Mortality"

The gods of Chaos bestow gifts of mutations upon their champions. Too many of these gifts transform their bearer its mindless, writhing chaos spawn.
Every day the cat returns to kill the same mouse, which sinks again into the cauldron's brew.
"I do not heal. Healing means that the pain has already been felt. To stop suffering, one must prevent the world's wounds altogether."

"The gods here may walk among the people, but they are not with them."
—Gideon Jura


"Her mind is an incredible mix of emotion and power. Even if I could grasp it, I couldn't hold it for long."
—Jace Beleren, on Chandra Nalaar
It's easy to believe the monster is a myth—until you feel three hundred thousand pounds of myth crashing down on your ship.

"These polearms were supposed to help!"
—Merrik Aidar, Benalish patrol


"Friendship isn't always easy, but there's no doubt it's worth fighting for!"

"Gather round and tell me all from the courts and castles."

"Baral took my family from me back then. I'd do anything to face him now."
—Chandra Nalaar

"The prohibition of unnecessary tossing of the citizenry by giants shall also extend to spontaneous giants."
—Isperia's Edict, provision VII.789.2




The Order of the Widget doesn't believe in traveling light.

Cinders carry an ancestral grudge that makes them slow to trust and quick to retaliate.
"Perfection is at hand. You have been freed of weakness and made *compleat*."
—Sheoldred, Whispering One


"Kinjalli sculpted humans from clay, but the dinosaurs were carved from unyielding stone."
—Itzama the Crested
"Here sprouted the first seedling of Argoth. Here the last tree will fall."
—Gamelen, Citanul elder


Some minds are more open than others.
"It preys on other birds. And drakelings. And drakes. Pretty much anything that crosses its flight path is fair game."
—Amira, skycaptain of Thune
Ramos smiled, and there was day.
"Let the pyres of the unbelievers light our way."
—Razia


"You are a guest in this realm, and you've overstayed your welcome."
—Yui, Imperial intercessor
The Keldons took several of the steeds as trophies of war. They'd never seen such a light beast stand so firm.
The blade glows only for Zendikar's chosen.



Not even the elves truly know the Skyshroud Forest. The rangers are merely the best equipped to handle its uncertainty.

Death is no impediment to dinner.
It eats what it wants to eat—which is anything that moves.

Samite healers never mix their pungent elixir with sweetener or tea. The threat of a second dose is enough to get most warriors back on their feet.

First the insult, then the injury.




The ethereal touch brings relief. The physical touch brings peace.




"There hasn't been an original thought on Vesuva in centuries."
—Emmest, Tolarian chronicler
"The unnatural pressures of life in this city are best withstood by lifeforms that adapt with unnatural swiftness."
—Momir Vig
Honor the gods of Theros, and they will return the favor.



One mogg to aim the catapult, one mogg to steer the rock.

Stealing goblin weapons would be easier if the goblins were smart enough to let go.
"Plant every sword. Embrace every soul."
—Trostani


"I gazed once into that light. Now it burns in my mind, forever denying me rest."
—Riku of Two Reflections
A mirror to draw its eye, a rod to rouse its rage, and a sword to break its bonds.

The creation of new weapons demands the destruction of others.

Legends say a djinn gave the goblins a gift they could never hope to master.

"Our will shall be our weapons, our faith shall be our armour."
—Canticle of Absolution
"This wound shall be like the chills of winter: swiftly forgotten when spring shoots rise."

"We are bearers of the ancient light, keepers of sun-crowned Heliod's blessings. Fight, and the light will protect you!"
The good news is it's so simple a goblin could use it. The bad news is it's so simple a goblin could use it.
Hot blood washes away cold reason.
"I order you to volunteer."
Automaton inspectors ensure that the Consulate's stringent standards for mass production are upheld.
Though no longer attached to the hand, it still holds its adversary in its grasp.
It is everywhere and nowhere, a place unbound by logic, just beyond the real.

Infinitely powerless.


"The scavengers who first found it called it the 'Bone Crank.' Not a bad name, I'd say."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"You aren't invited."
"It's not one or the other, kami or technology. Both offer power. I will not limit myself."




As the Simic released more of their krasis experiments, they required new habitats, always at the expense of the locals.
The faces of Geth's corpse-dredgers are disturbingly similar.
"Please don't feed the beetles."
—Promenade warning sign

"The land promises nothing and keeps its promise."
—Oracle *en*-Vec



"When the whole world is crazy, it's important to find something you can rely on."

"He cocooned himself alone in his workshop for months. When he finally emerged, all broad grins and excited chatter, I knew he'd found his answer."
—Barrin, master wizard
Its wings disturb more than air.


"Rise like the sun, stand like the mountain, charge like the lion, die as a hero."
—General Takeno

He knows the name of every elf born in the last four centuries. More importantly, they all know his.
One whiff of the sweet, pungent scent leads to euphoria—or to an early grave.
"The wind smells of misfortune. Check your knots."
—Anitan, Ondu cleric

Fast and lethal, with a penchant for the weak and infirm.
Eidren, perfect of Lys Alana, ordered hundreds of trees uprooted and rearranged into a pattern he deemed beautiful. Thus the Gilt-Leaf Wood was born.
As you hear it baying in the distance, you'll feel its breath on your neck.


"Life from death is part of the natural cycle. This is merely a shortcut."
—Tojira, swamp queen
Just as the evil ones approached to slay Justina, she cast a great spell, imbuing her weapons with her own life force. Thus she fulfilled the prophecy: "In the death of your savior will you find salvation."




"When I'm done here, they'll name entire buildings after me."
"The taste of freedom is sweeter than blood."
A beacon of prosperity to some, a shadow of oppression to others.

Faster than a cobra's bite.
The flesh of the Necrontyr is a memory so distant as to be nearly mythical.




"Even this primitive specimen of my kind is impressive."
—Niv-Mizzet

"There is great wisdom in rushing headlong into combat . . . if you're prepared."
—Kenjek, captain of the Thousand Swords
"Comin' through!" Designed by James Ernest

"Give me some room."

Mere weeks later, the planet was scoured of any trace of life. Every scrap of vegetation, every drop of water—gone.
"I was shocked when I first saw the aftermath of the Yavimaya Valley disaster. The raging waters had swept away trees, bridges, and even houses. My healers had much work to do."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest
"The cooling climate introduced a new threat to Vodalia: the Homarids. Once a minor nuisance, they thrived in the changing environment. Their ceaseless attacks strained Vodalia's defenses to their limit, eventually overwhelming the empire."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. V*
"Nature is the ultimate mindless destroyer, capable of power and ferocity no army can match, and the Gruul follow its example."
—Trigori, Azorius senator


"Chronicles across the ages describe Jodah. They likely refer not to one mage, but to a family or an arcane title."
—Arkol, Argivian scholar
A great mirage, a dream of wings and silver.




The Orzhov care not for repentance, only repayment.





"Watch over my father. Tell him I'm safe, but I won't come home until I find out how to bring him back to his senses, and Kamigawa is again at peace."
—Michiko Konda, last letter to General Takeno
Enter and leave the shackles of society behind.

The storm rages and the earth breaks.

It returns eager to share the feast of blood and gore with its ghoulish master.

Scholars in their ivory towers call them "sharks of the sky." Scholars on the road don't call them at all.
"The Houses always hope for peace, but we always pack for war."
—Gvar Barzeel, krumar commander
He was left with just enough memory to understand what he had lost.


When gloomwidows mature, they abandon venom in favor of massive webs that span the eaves of cliffs.
"Bottled life. Not as tasty as I'm used to, rather stale, but it has the same effect."
—Baron Sengir



Restless Riveteers can always find a sparring partner in the sprawling Treza warehouse.

「悪魔は、自分が賢く、騙されることなどないと信じている者を好む。」 ー巻物入れに刻まれた言葉



They share no bloodline, but a bond greater than family unites them. Such are the gifts of the Worldsoul.
"The Beast Walkers do a great service to Aysen. As humans or as beasts, their heart is yet to Serra true."
—Baris, Serra Inquisitor

Thelon of Havenwood created thallids as a food source in times of darkness. Thallids did the same with saprolings.
"Unless you're quicker, I wouldn't snicker."



"My shield will bear a shining sun so you will always be with me. / Inlaid with gold, it will shine like glowing embers."
—"Love Song of Night and Day"



Depending on your point of view, the seal represents a proud guardian of the natural cycle or one who has sold her soul to darkness for eternal life.


"Capturing this specimen was not easy. Study it well, that you someday might be as versatile."
—Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen


A foe without honour is a foe already beaten.
Titania rewards all who honor the forest by making them a living part of it.
"Stop complaining. You can rest when you're dead. Oh—sorry."
—Liliana Vess


He spent the final moments of his existence tumbling down the length of the serpent's jaws, driven mad by the magnitude of the Cosmos.

It returns eager to share the feast of blood and gore with its ghoulish master.
"We should step up repairs. I think the forest has plans for us."
—Crovax

Sometimes the wise ones wove their magic into living plants; as the plant grew, so grew the magic.
"Barbarians! They burned my favorite chair! We'll kill them all!"
—Anje Falkenrath


To gaze under its hood is to invite death.


Urza and Mishra may have been Tocasia's most famous students, but Loran was the true heir to her legacy.
"Let their horrors and machines come. We will meet them blow for blow."
"She is truly Wirewood's child now."
—Elvish refugee
"It is all in my grasp. Every petty dream, every grand scheme, every soul, every fear. It all flows through me and from me."
—Memnarch
Mechanical workers toiled away, tirelessly fueling the impossible.


"Over time, Konda grew ever more suspicious, fearing even his most loyal allies were being manipulated by unseen hands."
—*The History of Kamigawa*
"We spent three weeks trying to knock that wall down. Now it's knocking us down."
—Onean sergeant
Where the Quicksilver Sea laps over the Razor Fields, the landscape reflects the suns' fading hope.
Savagery to survive, courage to triumph.
"Each night, the artificer tucked the little doll into a locked drawer. Each morning, she awoke to find it waiting beside her with some new bauble."
—"The Artificer's Apprentice"


"Nicol Bolas destroyed my world. I owe it to Skalla to celebrate all life, no matter how dangerous."
—Vivien Reid
"I can see which way the wind is blowing."

"Trying to stop it would be foolish. If you feel it coming—run!"
—Sergeant Ryda
All who listen hear their own song, a unique melody played just for them.

"Maybe they wanted to be on the winning side for once."
—Matoc, lavamancer
It dodges waves of water to prepare for waves of magic.
"I'm too modest a wizard to reveal the full extent of my abilities."
—Ertai, wizard adept

There's no defending against public opinion.
"Little flower twirl and bloom, arise from this your rocky tomb. Little warrior slash and brawl, be born again to free us all."
Eternal Weekend 2022 Vintage

"There are so many of them. It seems they've just been waiting for someone to serve."
No one knew if they'd been lurking under the sea all along, or if they'd been created by the Phyrexian overlay.

"Pound the steel until it fits. Doesn't work? Bash to bits."
—Dwarven forging song
The Riveteers are as good at raising buildings as they are at razing them.
"My soul thirsts for Serra's salvation, as does my body for life's breath."
—Ihsan's Shade
"Fascinating . . . These creatures display the paradox of tenacity and purposed self-destruction I have sought to breed into my thrulls."
—Endrek Sahr, master breeder
"That which was, will be. That which will be, was."
—Kairos Fateweaver

"After years of study, I've learned an important lesson: the relics we watch may be watching us back."
—Anowon, the Ruin Sage
"Ha, banishment? Be merciful, say 'death,' For exile hath more terror in his look, Much more than death."
—William Shakespeare, *Romeo and Juliet*














These beings embody the essence of true heroes long dead. Summoned from the dreamrealms, they rise to meet their enemies.

When Kozilek emerged at Sea Gate, his brood lineage swarmed to the surface.
It roams the skies over the Quicksilver Sea, alert for any hint of aberrant thought.

"Rise and shine, my dears. We have work to do."
—Isareth the Awakener
"Ghoulcallers trying to get in, geists trying to get out . . . . This duty is never dull."


Tales of the outlaw's cruelty and might grew more embellished with each crime.
For use on cliffs and other faces.

"I need never remember my past associates, my victims, my mistakes. Innistrad preserves them all for me."
—Sorin Markov
"Snuffing the light of a lantern without saying a small prayer is bad luck. Though its flame can only singe, its soul can repeatedly visit misery on one's house."
—Teachings of Eight-and-a-Half-Tails
"I'm no coward, but I'd sooner tangle with a rampaging Torga troll than a hungry lindwurm!"
—Yegar, Beskir warrior

Sixty stories above the Astrotorium, attendees often wonder if they've made a mistake. They have another two hundred stories to decide.


"Should you a Rat to madness tease
Why ev'n a Rat may plague you..."
—Samuel Coleridge, "Recantation"





When it passes, those who sleep dream of sickness and death.
A king in Jund, a serf in Esper.

He gave the squirrels acorns. They gave him vengeance.

"My flesh holds no secrets, monster. The spirit of Mirrodin will fight on."
—Vy Covalt, Mirran resistance

He climbs a staircase of falling souls, fighting the continuous pull of the void.


All are prey to the eyes of the wild.

Parapet watchers patrol the outer edges of the doun, signaling to others who wait patiently in shadow.

Mephidross claims all life within it. What cannot be twisted is absorbed.
Alrund sees the future as a whorl of signs and symbols, omens interwoven in a intricate knotwork only he can decipher.

Urza always put Tocasia's lessons on resource-gathering to effective use.
The most dangerous thing an artificer can do is believe an invention is perfect.


The calmest day on Rath would be thought a storm anywhere else.
"Try to pretend like you understand what's important."

Bone, stone . . . both taste the same to a hungry basilisk.

"The pen is mightier than the crown."


The dryads of the forest have no stake in Ixalan's conflict, but they hate to see any living being suffer.
D'Haren stared at the twisted lump of metal that had been a prized artifact. The fight was getting ugly.


It started as a mere drop of water. The Magic Mirror crystallized it into much more.
"Doing okay back there, Tarv? Tarv?"
"Strike," the fumes hiss. "Raise an empire with your ambition."
"All buildings are subject to search. Resistance will be punished."
—Enforcer-Chief Ranaj


Once a year, Akrasa holds a joust that draws knights and their leotaus from every nation on Bant. The prize is an Akrasan sigil, but the true reward is the angel's kiss.

Sometimes "innovation" means "stealing another's secret before anyone else can."
"All beings carry the fire inside them. The challenge is to unleash it before they dwindle into oblivion."
—Illulia, flamekin soulstoke

The power of the fens sleeps lightly, and always awakens hungry.
Some do. Some teach. The rest look it up.



"Let the points of our lances lead the way."
"Echoes of the Mirari's power yet linger."
—Zyd, Kamahlite druid

"The noble work of our order is to infuse all life on Esper with etherium. Our goal will be reached more rapidly if new life is . . . suppressed."
"You thought only the gods could stop you?"


"We are bound to wander this forest forever. Sometimes I think it wanders with us."
—Ogni, Kannah scout

"Diametrically opposing energies in self-sealed plasmodermic bubbles make great pets!"
—Trivaz, Izzet mage
After years of silence, the caves once again echo with the grisly sounds of Phyrexians preparing for war.
"Hunger is no different from any other foe; defeat it in the Emperor's name, and save Humanity."
—Motto of the Argi-World Viridia IV
Everything that inhabits Garenbrig is affected by the wild magic flowing through the Great Henge.
"Try to pretend like you understand what's important."
Its beak rends flesh and bone, exposing the tender marrow of dream.
The fewer your possessions, the fewer your worries.
"Your body is a delicate instrument that tells me truths. These devices help me 'tune' that instrument."

"I got it! I got it! I—"
The tender light of the living quickens the pulse of the dead.
How does one escape a curse? For Crovax, a wealthy noble, the answer may lie in joining the crew of the *Weatherlight* as they seek to rescue their abducted captain Sisay. Secretly, he hopes in his journeys to find Selenia, the angelic being who abandoned him and his family years ago.
"Today our blades remember Kroog! May the seven brass gods be with us!"
The tide of battle favors those who can swim.

There is beauty in the uncertainty of potential.
As a youth, Kamahl took one for a pet. His hair has yet to grow back.


The merrows' prey have retreated from the shore, so they have learned to follow.
"Wait, where am I? Who am I? And what are you?"
—Skyshroud secretkeeper, last words




"It is finished. Now the real work can begin."
—Tezzeret
"Heavy? Maybe for you."
Is there any other kind?



Sometimes the books hit back.



For the right price, he'll unlock your path to the throne.
In their final moments, the demons gazed upon grace in its purest form.
It would be a shame to let life slip away to nothing.


"Did it have this shape upon Mirrodin's creation, or did some inconceivable force shape the unshapable?"
—Pontifex, elder researcher


"Oh no. Oh no. Oh no. Oh no, again!"
—Beltstad, cathar recruit, last words

"Sea Gate may have fallen, but we still stand. We still fight."
—Gideon Jura
After the battle, an eerie silence gripped the forest. The losers' remains were lightly dusted with green.


The Joraga elves never need ask a troll to leave their territory. They merely grant it their combined strength, and it can't resist embarking on a merry rampage.

No howl. No snarl. Just the roar of flames.



Instinct blood-tinted his world until he could see only one thing clearly: his prey.



Their calls unheeded by the withered forests, nature shamans channeled the life force of their brethren.
6 PM (23) This Old Grove 98055 A rusted masticore makes a beautiful addition to any garden.
"Those Foxes are wily, swift, and ferocious. They are the warriors of the snows."
—General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox
Baral's spies always have the latest technology.

"Pay in gold. Pay in blood. Pay with the servitude of your spirit kin. But pay you must."
"Avoid anything that scuttles, scrabbles, or shambles."
—Opar, veteran guide
"Remember the moral of the fireslinger fable: with power comes isolation."
—Karn, silver golem



The Eternals found some sparks to be quite slippery.

Even a fragment of a powerstone contains within it not just energy, but space@-vast dimensions trapped in fragile crystal.
"Those dragons grow fast. For a while they feed on squirrels and goblins and then suddenly you're missing a mammoth."
—Hurdek, Mazar mammoth trainer
While other pirates prowl for treasure, Captain Parrish plunders secrets.

The problem with rebels is that they so quickly reject authority.
It's viciously territorial, destroying every creature on the mountain it has chosen to consume.



"We have no need for military might. We wield two of the sharpest swords ever forged: Faith in our left hand, Wealth in our right."
—Vuliev of the Ghost Council



The elves had devised countless strategies to combat Memnarch's war machines, but they had no idea what to do when one was *thrown* at them.

Centuries of careful practice have elevated the casting of protective spells to an art form. What little offensive magic remains on Bant stands little chance of breaching them.
Above the cries, a phrase rang out: "You will all be saved."
It serves a justice higher than the whims of the gods.


"Breaking news! Lord Xander found dead! Suspect at large!"



Scavengers both mundane and magical follow in its wake, feeding on the scraps of flesh and spirit it leaves behind.
If only every message were as perfect as its bearer.

Sometimes primitive cultures attributed natural phenomena to monsters. Sometimes they were right.

"No fact escapes me. Why do you think you can?"
"Here are some bones for you to choke on, dear brother!"
—Gisa, to Geralf


"You've got to keep your wits about you on the roofs. Not all stones are compliant handholds."
—Iveta, rooftop runner
"Time to show the foe our true mettle."

The gods are fascinated by innocence, perhaps because it's a quality they themselves lack.





"To the king, to the Circle, and to the realm! And to not dying."
"A slayer gets by on wits and reflexes."
—Higa, slayer-captain of Gatstaf
"You studied hard. How delicious!"
"Honorable tactics are for honorable foes. These werewolves are preying on innocent travelers. I'll stab them in the back while they sleep if I have to."
Its blood is life. Its body is growth.
Basri carries on his god's legacy, spreading her teachings throughout the Multiverse.


"Feel the burn of the mists. Master them. They will devour your enemies."
—Geth, keeper of the Vault

"Madness can't touch a mind ignited by genius."



Tervish never noticed that the amulet had vanished. It had disappeared not only from his possession, but from his memory as well.

Not born of nature, but deeply connected to it nonetheless.
She displays her scars with pride.
"Where do our forgotten thoughts go? I knew once, but I can't remember."
—Director Taiva, journal entry
You've always preferred the company of animals to people.
First among equals.


"And to think, I came in here looking for someone to eat."

"They'll never see me coming."
To consult a sphinx is a test in patience. Perhaps that's the point.

"With a great cry, the goblin host broke and ran as the first wave of knights penetrated its ranks."
—Tivadar of Thorn, History of the Goblin Wars
"Take your place among the stars."
—Kruphix, god of horizons

Needledeep had promised that his final project would be his biggest one yet.
"Let that be a lesson to you, your family, and everyone you've ever known."


"There's nothing to worry about."
Shades are drawn to places of power, often rooting themselves in a single area to feed.



"Our sanctuaries must be beacons of reason and calm or else they will fall."
The giant was felt a few seconds before he was seen.
They wouldn't know their house from a charred hole in the ground.
Never be afraid to look where others can't—or won't.

"We fight together! In Sigarda's name, ready your weapons!"


Once they reached Orazca, the Legion's explorers ransacked tombs and temples, hunting for the Immortal Sun.
"The first birth celebrates life. The second birth mocks it."
—Mystic elder

A pirate crew without a ship is a crew that will do anything to get one.
"Our own actions built the prisons that now hold us. Our hands reached too far and tried to hold too much."
—Dosan the Falling Leaf
"Victory in the pits is almost as rewarding as the methods I use to achieve it."

"I knew I should have stayed with the boat. Always stay with the boat!"
The harvest god's cornucopia contains the fruits of the fields, the forest, and beyond.

An alien from another world, at first glance it looks funny. Maybe scary and also maybe ugly, but mostly funny.



"There is no time to remedy our enemies' ignorance. Blast it out of them."
—Aurelia

"Mystery is beauty. Within the unknown we plumb revelation."
—Vannifar
There is not a single inch of Ravnica that hasn't been altered at one point or another to fit someone's whims.


Once the witness was inside, the safe house vanished first from sight, then from memory.
"Selesnya denied us tribute. Let's show them the error of their ways."
—Milana, Orzhov prelate


On the day of victory no one is tired. —Arab proverb
"The floor of the sea is paved with the shattered remnants of vessels that navigated its surface unwelcomed."
—Thassa, god of the sea

During the war, the rites of purification were still effective, but the kami, not the kitsune, chose what to cleanse.





A grave is not always for burial.

"Fight through it."
"Prepare for battle!"
—Jiang Yanggu



Courier owls joined the fray, attacking the Dreadhorde with a viciousness usually reserved for mail thieves.


"If you must die today, make your death worthy of legend."
—Alesha, Who Smiles at Death
"Ashes can't be embalmed."
—Neheb, initiate of Ahn crop
"These worthless cattle think they can sneak unnoticed into my wedding? Dispose of them."
—Olivia Voldaren

Legend speaks of the lost coastal polis of Olantin, whose inhabitants' hubris enraged the sun god Heliod.
"I thought this was a civilized plane. How are there so many feral beasts?"
—Dovin Baan





Elspeth's squires do not seek advancement. For them, no knightly glory could surpass the glory of serving their champion.

The same magic that lets geists pass through our realm can force them out of it.
"I am not at liberty to reveal my sources, but I can assure you, the price on your head is high."

You might as well try to catch water with a net.

"And the ignorant shall fall to the squirrels."
—*Chip 2:54*
"It's the must-have gift for everyone on your list. Get one for yourself, too!"
—Chammi, curio vendor
"The common folk call it the breaking of the crust or the spilling of fire. Geomancers call it target practice."
—Ryda, geomancer
Beyond pain, beyond obsession and wild despair, there lies a place of twisted power only the most tormented souls can reach.









"Look at the detail in this stonework! Professor, our assumptions about early Kathorran tool use may not be correct."
The pits have their own form of mercy.
The intricate dynamics of Rundvelt Goblin affairs are often confused with anarchy. The chaos, however, is the chaos of a thundercloud, and direction will sporadically and violently appear. Pashalik Mons and his raiders are the thunderhead that leads in the storm.
The wise always keep an ear open to the whispers of power.
"Got the remaining citizens to safety! These miscreants have an appointment with my spear."

"I am confident that if anyone actually penetrates our facades, even the most perceptive would still be fundamentally unprepared for the truth of House Dimir."
—Szadek
The mages of Tolaria found strange ways to spend their free time. Occasionally they had contests to see whose kite was eaten last.

Scholars say that arbiters exist on every world, created by an unknown hand to enforce justice.
"The future is my gift to Keld."







Thakolides the Mighty
Slayer of minotaurs
Vanquisher of giants
Killed by a scorpion
—Inscription on an Akroan grave
"Danger! Danger! Come out of the safety of your holes!"





"Sunken ruins? My specialty."






The spell wavered, caught on the tip of his tongue and at the edge of his awareness.
His mind chose solitude, but his heart disagreed.
The notes themselves are irrelevant. The music's effect, however, is worth ten armies.
The more pleasant an illusion's garb, the more indecent its form laid bare.
"Join the army, see foreign countries!" they'd said.
It's fun. He doesn't need another reason.





"Treva is the voice of the ur-dragon, demanding cries of worship."

Petting the nodorog
—Gruul expression meaning "making a really big mistake"
The hardest lesson for any elf to learn is humility. It takes a giant to teach that.
Heroic deeds inspire new heroes.
"You and your ship will make a fine addition to my fleet."
Some spells sing a quiet tune. Others roar.



"Use everything. Iron, rust, scrap . . . even the ground must join our cause."
—Ezuri, renegade leader

"May your day never match your expectations."
—Scriptus Fleen, flectomancer

"Kalitas may have returned to mindless servitude beneath the Eldrazi, but we say never again."
—Drana, Kalastria bloodchief
Home is where the heart was.
"I always thought the great insects of Tazeem were frightening until I saw the Eldrazi. Now I welcome the sight of mantises perched in the treetops."
—Ryza, Oran-Rief scout
"Some of the other guys dared me to touch it, but I knew it weren't no ordinary hunk o' rock."
—Norin the Wary
"I ran the experiment through the brain of a schizophrenic lab-goblin. My burners' flames fell asleep while the beakers jumped about and shattered. Success!"
—Myznar, Izzet psychomancer

Born with wings of light and a sword of faith, this heavenly incarnation embodies both fury and purity.

Enter the Senate, the seat of justice and the foundation of Ravnican society.
Someone had to be first to attack, but he was not alone for long.
"There will be gains for our losses. There will be rights for our wrongs."


The ethereal touch brings relief. The physical touch brings peace.



"Feeding a normal army is a problem of logistics. With zombies, it is an asset. Feeding is why they fight. Feeding is why they are feared."
—Jadar, ghoulcaller of Nephalia
"It is finished. Now the real work can begin."
—Tezzeret
Frog is the sincerest form of flattery.
"In this line of work, you've got to know how to squirrel things away. Quite literally, in my case."
The recruits trained in eternal night, fueled by the hope that they might one day see the sun again.



"Down here, we have a more pointed version of the scriptures."
—Urabrask's enforcer
Only the hardiest explorers survive to eat the fruit.




The Returned have no memory of the Underworld or of their former lives. The golden masks they wear are the last gifts of the selves they left behind.
The best presents are impossible to regift.

You don't have to outrun the werewolf; you only have to outrun your fellow guard.




"Jewels cannot be eaten nor gold drunk. What civilization trades, nature simply provides."
—Molimo, maro-sorcerer

Only by sacrificing any semblance of defense could Gerrard best Greven.

"Give me eight walkers, I'll give you the city."
—Dovin Baan

Most knew of the tower's wizard and gargoyle. Few realized which was guardian and which was master.
"I prefer loyalty to be a matter of respect, not of magic. But one does what one must."
—Kaalia of the Vast


"I have lived long, and I remember how this city once was. If my death serves to bring back the Ravnica in my memory, then so be it."

"Once they've marked you," Starke said, "the world is made of glass."
It turns the adversity of the moment into the knowledge of a lifetime.
Where life and force collide.
Some adopted the tactics of the leonin to combat the ferocity of the minotaurs.
Ancient evils dwell within the burning chasm called the Ashmouth, ever ready to devour those foolish enough to travel alone.
While other pirates prowl for treasure, Captain Parrish plunders secrets.


"For my confession they burned me with fire
And found that I was for endurance made."
—*The Arabian Nights*, trans. Haddawy



"I asked one of my aides how they do it, but all he'd say was, 'Trust me, Mayor, you don't want to know.'"
—Lydia Wynforth, Mayor of Trokair

"My family sheltered in her light, the dark was content to wait."
—Crovax




Lady Bormul claims an owlbear has been trampling her fields, but there's something unnatural about the tracks it left behind.


Gerrard looked all around for the source of the mysterious pulse, and at that moment the slivers boiled forth from the crevasses.
"At last, the infamous Pia Nalaar."
—Tezzeret
Created to break will and bone with equal ferocity.




"Impossible! How could they overwhelm us? We had barricades, war elephants, . . . and they were barely a tenth of our number!"
—General Avitora
"Hard to imagine," mused Hanna, stroking the petal, "such a lovely flower inspiring such greed."
Its curve mimics the twists of life and death.


Dorik was unshakably confident, having learned medicine from the finest butcher shops in Yotia.





The parched earth still shielded those few souls with the heart to call it home.
"What lurks behind the faces of those you think you can trust?"

Occasionally a skaab remembers too much of its former life. Luckily, there's an easy cure.
The Flaming Fist soldiers prepared to face a bulette, or worse, but the cause of the rumblings turned out to be much more benign and bizarre.

Bottom feeders sometimes rise to the top.
To the sorrow of all, its winds found sin in the hearts of those who once learned from its wisdom.
"Thraben is our home and I will not see it fall to this unhallowed horde."
Rishada is the gateway to free trade—but the key will cost you.

"Look what we fought for. Look what we built together."
Born with wings of light and a sword of faith, this heavenly incarnation embodies both fury and purity.
To say Nixar had a splitting headache would be a bit of an understatement.


Tawnos left a legacy of animal designs in many of Urza's creations.







"There's never been a dwarven smith who could match the marvels that Gaea herself forges."
—The Elvish Champion


When the blood hunt lost its thrill, she looked for less tangible means of domination.


"No doubt the arbiters would put you away, after all the documents are signed. But I will have justice now."
—Alovnek, Boros guildmage













Unable to settle on just one design, Urza decided to create one versatile being.



"A problem is only a problem if you don't have the tools to correct it."
—Jhoira
"You've strayed, overworlder."
Idle chatter becons many an attentive ear.
When carrion feeds on carrion, dark days approach.
"Through the haze of battle I saw the glint of sun on golden mane, the sheen of glory clad in mail, and I dropped my sword and wept at the idiocy of war."
—Dravin, Gruul deserter
"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim."
—Sisay, captain of the *Weatherlight*


In the Tangle, bad is often followed by worse.
Bridges usually get you from one place to another. This one just gets you.
Spirits disturbed by ghoulcallers become geists driven by restless anger.


Relentless as the sea, remorseless as death.
Often it's not the hunter or the hunted but the opportunist who thrives in Rath.




Warriors of the Tsunami-nito School spend years in training to master the way of effortless effort.
"Give me a bit of steel and I'll deliver it into the hearts of my enemies."
"Without combat medics, Icatia would probably not have withstood the forces of chaos as long as it did."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. VI*
"The people of Aysen feed us, and we don't kill them. That's my kind of truce."
—Eron the Relentless
The Boros legionnaire saw a noble sacrifice, the Rakdos thug a blazing suicide, and the Izzet alchemist an experiment gone awry.


Once he was jumped by a dozen Maestros agents. You can still see their imprints in the pavement if you know where to look.

Lord Rondor arrived for battle with sixty war elephants, ten catapults, and two hundred of his finest archers. Then he saw the battlefield . . .
Seafarers fear sailing off the world's edge not so much as down its gullet.
"The colossal thing rumbled over the ridge, tree husks crumbling before it. The ones we were already fighting howled as it came, their muscles suddenly surging, and we knew it was time to flee."
—Llanach, Skyshroud ranger


We are made stronger by those we fight for. Designed by Richard Garriott
"We measure our progress in heartbeats."
—Prime Speaker Zegana

A master of tactics, the Lord of Atlantis makes his people bold in battle merely by arriving to lead them.
As if anyone needed another reason to avoid dark, dank cellars.

"On vile wings and bloody wind, the swarm will rise."
—Skyclave inscription
"Melt that which was never frozen."
—Spellbomb inscription

Mightiest of the Cat Warriors, Jedit Ojanen forsook the forests of his tribe and took service with the Robaran Mercenaries, rising through their ranks to lead them in the battle for Efrava.

"My faith is stronger than fang, claw, or mindless hunger."


Wind will win, whatever we wish.
The Hold, an illegal research facility in a derelict merchant ship, became a wellspring of renegade intelligence.


"As a child I saw something walking in the distance, far beyond the Hekma—shadow-dark, and taller than the gods. Even now, it passes through my dreams."
—Pytamun, initiate of Nef crop


"My mind has changed. My strength has not."
"They are small, but they always want more. Learn from them."
—Bontu, god of ambition
Steel doors and iron bars are child's play for an Obscura operative.





The merfolk know every contour of their coral homes; each reef is a garden in times of peace, and a refuge and fortress in times of war.
"I don't *think* so."
Fear the mists, for they are armed.

The grave robbers arrived the day after the burial. They were a day too late.

A ghoulcaller's playground.

An ogre's poisonous stench is like fine Kashkaval cheese to the noses lowest to the ground.
The swarm's million wings stir the foulest of breezes.



Its mood changes with the weather, and vice versa.



That which endures, survives.
"The second mage learned to dissipate blasts of lightning. Threat and response: thus did the study of magic progress."
—Naban, dean of iteration
Crude tactics can be effective nonetheless.





"For justice and peace, I will keep watch."
"The land grows only where the kami will it."
—Dosan the Falling Leaf
He lurks in the undercity, eager for the corpse haulers to unload their rotting cargo.



In the end, the lights fade, the land withers, and only the dead and vile remain.


"Burn their homes. Salt their lands. Nothing survives."
—The Western Paladin

Even those born to battle could only lay their blades at Akroma's feet.
To the soldier, war is famine; to the scavenger, a feast.




Koth sent partisans into the Tangle to bring survivors to the safe haven of the tunnels below Kuldotha.
She soars on wings of Serra's light, her sword of faith meting out justice to the wicked.
"I came seeking a challenge. All I found was you."
—Zurgo, khan of the Mardu

"I'm sure we can come to an arrangement."
In life, it was a fetid, disease-ridden thing. In death, not much changed.
Up and down,
over and through,
back around—
the joke's on you.

"She will come back to me."



In preparation for the conflict all foresaw, the Golgari called upon an army that had slept for millennia beneath the city.

As the green sun crowned, Phyrexian prophecies glowed on the Tree of Tales.








Those who forget the horrors of the past are doomed to re-meet them.

"There is no calamity greater than lavish desires. There is no greater guilt than discontentment. And there is no greater disaster than greed."
—Lao Tsu, *Tao Te Ching*, (trans. Chan)


"Learn to burn!"
—Institute of Arcane Studies motto
When Rhonas fell, his followers stirred with newfound strength—a final gift from a god they thought indomitable.
Their flesh is as sodden as the fens in which they live, oozing to fill any wound and squishing to absorb any blow.

"Let all we have buried be buried forever."
—Seton, centaur druid

And yea he doth spake: "Let there be Magic."
After Uda's hat boutique in Selhoff was destroyed by werewolves, she relocated outside of town and took up a new type of sewing.











The Cabal assured the Seven Houses that hostages receive all the food and rest they require.


Elvish healers carry vials of the balm known as dawnglow, reserving it for those wounds that herbs cannot treat.

"Life cannot be created and then abandoned. It must be nurtured and fed so that it may express its ripened might."
—Freyalise
The bane of all artificers, the legendary Atogs devoured intricate tools to further their own twisted growth.
"What do you mean, we're out of stuff to melt down? Give me your leg."
"We prepare for the known with daggers, rations, rope, and pitons. But we also prepare for the unknown with billycat tails, pikku roots, hedron chips . . ."
Dependence on luck is anathema to Kefnet's rigorous studies. Those who hope to escape his maze by chance never succeed.
One who is marked by a demon in life is sure to be remembered as one in death.
On the bright side, the bear now had cupholders.
"Like dawn's first light, blind the unprepared and banish the shadows."
—Skyhunter creed

Kor have no concept of exploration. They return to homelands forgotten.
"Have you ever held a Boros signet? There's a weight to it that belies its size—a weight of strength and of pride."
—Agrus Kos
The shamans' souls were drawn to the astral lantern like moths to a kaleidoscopic flame.
"May our foes choke upon its horns!"
—Urdnan, Dromoka warrior


Some armor is forged, some is forested.

Reminders of Memnarch's reign still skirr across Mirrodin, reminiscent of his form if not his power.

"Leadership, not numbers, determines victory."
—A Wu commander, before his 5,000 troops forced 15,000 Wei troops to retreat from Ruxu
Born of the core, and dying to stoke it.
"Right now, in these first moments of creation, it is simultaneously nothing and everything."
"The most insidious thing in the world is nonsense that sounds just plausible enough to listen to."
—Lazav
Consulate engineers have developed safe methods of harvesting aether, but renegades aren't always so careful.

"At least up here I have some peace and quiet."



Young vampires gorge themselves at every meal, but their elders have learned to savor the smallest bite.
Volcanic violence made manifest.

A herd of one.



"Death not for survival but for vanity and pleasure? This is the decadence I sought to curb."
—Sorin Markov

A thousand feathers from a thousand birds, sewn with magic and song.
Formerly oppressed by the polis of Meletis, leonin occasionally "mistake" their old enemies for game.



"Saprolings need only a host to feed upon. Numbers will take care of the rest."
—Ghave, Guru of Spores

"When gods become apathetic, the people will worship anyone who answers their pleas."
—Kiora
"Sometimes the only difference between a martyr and a hero is a sword."
—Captain Sisay, *Memoirs*
You arrive at Baldur's Gate with instructions to head straight to the heart of the rumor mill: the bakery.

Aunt and Uncle Greyfield loved dinner guests.
"Whatever you're looking for—food, family, Halo—we've got the best in town."
"Helping people is mostly a matter of teaching them to help themselves."
—Sisay, journal
Diluted, moonglove can etch living tissue. Concentrated, a drop will kill a giant.

"Where divinity leads, victory follows."
—Silverblade motto
The only thing Ziatora desires is "more."


"In the end, the same soil lies atop the field, within the mountain, and under the sea."
He exercises his right to bear arms.
In Kessig, even celebration wears a fearsome face.

「誰でも死後に思い出してもらえるかは心配なもの。でも心配ないわ、死は名も無き者のものよ。あなたに名前がある限リ、それを堂々と掲げなさい。」
――リリアナ

If you hear it, it's too late.


"Those who say that Serra is dead have never met the Autumn Willow's daughters. They are as kind and as generous as Serra would wish us to be."
—Gulsen, Abbey Matron


"For its time as a mortal, Anger chose a shell of boiling rock."
—*Scroll of Beginnings*
"Life up here is simple. Adapt to the ways of the mountains and they will reward you. Fight them and they will end you."
—Kezim, prodigal pyromancer
He wants to watch Ravnica burn, one soul at a time.
"So now you've seen Glen Elendra. Take a good look. It will be the last thing you'll ever see."
Going to a Rakdos show is dangerous. Trying to leave early can be fatal.
"Give me your memories, and you will have release from the suffering they bring you."
"When something dies, all things benefit. Well okay, just our things."
—Ezoc, Golgari rot farmer
The kor send their thopter kites to see if the land is in a welcoming mood.
Their natural curiosity, combined with a knack for trespassing, makes sprites excellent spies.
Healers ultimately acquire the divine gifts of spiritual and physical wholeness. The most devout are also granted the ability to pass physical wholeness on to others.


The devil appreciated the irony of using doves for ammunition. The townsfolk, not so much.

"Seeing one slowly devour one of my party begged the question—do they know what cruelty is?"
—Hastric, Thunian scout

Rain from this storm leaves you pinned to the ground like an insect.
"Who are the agents of the Dimir? No one and everyone."
—Lazav




The Neurok buried entangling cables just under the Quicksilver Sea. One seastrider harvest can provide an army's worth of armor and shields.
The stitcher died years ago, but her dutiful assistant still keeps the laboratory well stocked.


A rested mind is the sharpest weapon.
"It is technically an ooze, but its lifespan measures only seconds. In that short time, its appetite for magic is extraordinary."
—Simic research notes

The ancient dragon Thraxes sleeps in Purphoros's sacred peak. When he stirs in dreams, so does the mountain.
"Your life will set with the sun."
"You should try to clear your mind of idle thoughts. And if you can't, I will."
"This one opens the grate outside Zelzo Base. This one is for Ismeri Library. This one is for an invisible door . . . No, I've said too much."

Elspeth's squires do not seek advancement. For them, no knightly glory could surpass the glory of serving their champion.


Unlike most churches, at Orzhova it's best to pray before you arrive.
Liliana whispered to whatever consciousness Oketra and Bontu had left. "You are the gods. He is the usurper. You know what to do."

"I don't have time for you right now."
—Teferi


Charged with psychic energy, the melee weapons of the Tyranid are far more than bone and chitin.








The plagues robbed Dominaria of all but its dreams. Eladamri hoped dreams were enough.
Those who raged most bitterly at the world in life are cursed to roam the nether realms in death.
"Take this. I know it's bitter, but it will ease the fever and get you back on your feet."

"Rage is a dangerous weapon. Your enemies will try to use your anger against you. Use it against them first."
—Ajani Goldmane

"Here you go. Can't have you sleeping through your own wedding day."
Immolation is the sincerest form of flattery.
"One day every pillar will be a tree and every hall a glade."
—Trostani




Every facet a promise of Chauntea's bounty.

When wielded by a true believer, it matters little whether the sword is a relic or a replica.
"We slew the last dragon ages ago. Now we fight the *real* monsters."
The dance of angry feet
—Nantuko expression meaning "stampede"
"When monsters walk, the earth knows its place and yields."
—Rielle, the Everwise

Its collapse is like the lashing out of a long-dead civilization that resents being forgotten.


"What we do not use up, we use again."
—Urza
Noted neither for their good looks nor their charm, Crimson Manticores can be fearsome allies. As dinner companions, however, they are best left alone.
"If you live on a giant's back, there's only one individual you'll ever need to fear."
—Gaddock Teeg
The shaman of the tribe is responsible for keeping track of all its treasures, including angry pets and cursed lamps of fiery doom.
Little agonies pave the way to greater power.




"Carry the heat of the furnace in your steel, and never let it fade."
—Keni-Keni, akki smith


"So you see, the reckless battle strategy of the Kathorran orcs was effective, but ultimately proved to be a double-edged sword. As did their double-edged swords."
"Want to sink a ship? Blow a hole in the hull. Want to kill a regisaur? Same answer."
—Captain Brandis Thorn


"Turn the key deftly in the oiled wards, And seal the hushed casket of my soul."
—John Keats, "To Sleep"

Before any major undertaking, a Cylian elf seeks the guidance of a visionary to learn the will of the gargantuan ancients.

"In Llanowar, we tend the forest's boughs and branches. In Yavimaya, we are a part of them."
—Rofellos of Llanowar



Some say magic was first practiced by women, who have always felt strong ties to the land.
Vedalken eyes don't see the beauty in things. They see only what those things can teach.



Hate is an everlasting wellspring from which she is eternally sustained.







Alas, the meowtropolis was struck by a devastating catastrophe, leaving the ground littered with debris.
Humans still feared wolves, though no connection between them and the curse of lycanthropy had ever been proved.

His soldiers etch his words on the insides of their shields, their inspiration always in sight during battle.


When a dragon attacks, there are no bystanders.
The assassins of the Ochran distill toxins from the remains of their previous victims.



"Which do you think is a better deterrent: a moat of water or one of fire?"
—Chandra Nalaar

No scrap of nutrition goes to waste in the undercity.
"Of twenty yeer of age he was, I gesse.
Of his stature he was of evene lengthe.
And wonderly delyvere, and of greete strengthe."
—Geoffrey Chaucer,
*The Canterbury Tales*
Golgari reclaimers resent the gorgons, begrudging the loss of so many fine nutrients locked away in stone.
"No rest. No mercy. No matter what."

Fire burns away both flesh and freedom.

"There is great wisdom in rushing headlong into combat . . . if you're prepared."
—Kenjek, captain of the Thousand Swords






Three little goblins, enjoying their brew. One bumped an ogre, and then there were two.



"To examine the causes of life, we must first have recourse to death."
—Mary Shelley, *Frankenstein*




Orim taught Ta-Karnst and the other Cho-Arrim healers a far less invasive method of healing.

While most power is used for ordinary, everyday tasks, one shouldn't underestimate its potential for the extraordinary.
Kongming and Lu Su tricked Wei troops into shooting over 100,000 arrows at them to later use against the Wei at Red Cliffs.


"Never Surrender"
—Motto carved into a fragment of an Icatian wall


"They say the ruins of Sedraxis were once a shining capital in Vithia. Now it is a blight, a place to be avoided by the living."
—Olcot, Rider of Joffik

Freyalise forbid that any stranger should wander into the striders' territory.

Starving and worn, Cao Cao escaped from the battle of Red Cliffs with only 27 of his original 800,000 men.






When it takes forever to learn all the rules, no time is left for breaking them.
Those who forget the horrors of the past are doomed to re-meet them.

Fblthp had always hated crowds.

Its blood is life. Its body is growth.
"I'll have my revenge if I have to call on every force from above and below."


In the abstract memories of the Iquati, Jace found interesting ideas to improve upon.


Regardless of the century, plane, or species, developing artificers never fail to invent the ornithopter.



"To care for yourself, cultivate the world. To care for the world, cultivate yourself."

"Practice alone will not bring perfection. The practice itself must be perfect. Again!"
"On every plane, there are those who run toward danger."
—Gideon Jura
Urza's wards fell from him like autumn leaves as he entered the dreaming grove. He awoke imprisoned in living wood.
"Finally, a weapon the Boros can't confiscate!"
—Juri, proprietor of the Juri Revue
"May the Ancestor strengthen my hand and guide my blade."
—Nomad war prayer
Its victims are known by their eyes: shattered vessels leaking broken dreams.




"Shoo, you little worm tails—go away! My corpses aren't your dinner!"
—Ghoulcaller Gisa
"Ashes to ashes, rust to rust."
—Viridian shaman


"If our foes will not listen to words, perhaps hooves and claws will make them take notice."
—Seton, centaur druid

"Until all have found their place, I will keep watch."
Sorin had created Avacyn, so it was a cruelty beyond imagining, a pain beyond description, that it fell upon him to end her forever.
Its web is an excellent source of found copper for the daring or the stupid.




Cats prowl the corridors of Avacyn's churches in search of devils or signs of their mischief.





Once guarded by the Knights of the Reliquary, the tower stands now protected only by its own remoteness, its dusty treasures open to plunder by anyone.


"I think little of the foes I've slain. But I'm haunted by the friends I've sent to die."
—The Southern Paladin







Travelers in the undercity dread the horrors and assassins of the Dimir, but nearly as many die from more mundane hazards.



"I headbutted a troll. And won."
"Not everyone gets a second chance."
—Hanna




Deep in Glen Elendra blossoms Oona, queen of the faeries, nourished by secrets and pollinated by stolen dreams.
So great is his wisdom and spirit that many who have met him say that they stood before a giant of a man and talked to the wisest of the four winds.
The spell fell upon the crowd like a dragon, ancient and full of death.


"No one chooses to be stitched together into a skaab. If it could speak, it would beg for its own destruction."
—Thalia, Knight-Cathar
Mages seek out the ancient beings known as the Archaics for their boundless knowledge of history and magic, dispensed only in cryptic metaphors.
"The dead make good soldiers. They can't disobey orders, they never surrender, and they don't stop fighting when a random body part falls off."
—Nevinyrral, *Necromancer's Handbook*


"I'll take that. You won't need it when the revolution comes."
Linger on death's door and risk being invited in.




She patrols the darkness so that others can forget their worries for one bright evening.



It doesn't need to use its venom—it just needs you to know it can.
Whether inspired by fear or by honor, all loyalty lends might.
"Try to pretend like you understand what's important."


"It's strangely satisfying seeing an undead killing machine from another world standing befuddled in front of a wall of text."
—Lavinia





Titania rewards all those who honor the forest by making them a living part of it.

"'Here lies our beloved Gartu, the gentlest of all men.' Ooh, I love irony."
—Jadar, ghoulcaller of Nephalia



"The awestruck birds gazed at Wonder. Slowly, timidly, they rose into the air."
—*Scroll of Beginnings*

"If you do not feel the thrill of battle, alive like a flame, you will never triumph."
"Draw out your fear, but don't let it control you. You're in charge now."
"We in the Conclave have a saying: 'When you hold a shield, lend your shield.' The strong must never forget what they owe to the weak."
— Niszka, Selesnya evangel





In a withered world, the scent of healthy prey is enough to drive a predator to frenzy.



He exercises his right to bear arms.

"The only roads I wish to see are those beaten flat by wild hooves."

"I like burning and pillaging as much as anyone, but sometimes it's just easier to throw a rock and let the trolls do the work."
@-Urik, Tuskeri raid leader

"The foot stone is connected to the ankle stone, the ankle stone is connected to the leg stone..."
—Song of the Artificer
Just because they have a club doesn't mean they're organized.

The sound of its plated tail beating on desert rocks is often mistaken for the footfalls of a much larger predator.
"If you hire a sell-sword, you'd better watch your back. Hire me, and I'll watch it for you."




The real advantage of being a zombie gamer? No one notices the stench.



Other birds collect twigs for their nests. Magpies collect jewels for theirs.

Aboard her ship, the *Dragon's Smile*, Kari follows no one's rules but her own.
"Hi! ni! ya! Behold the man of flint, that's me! / Four lightnings zigzag from me, strike and return."
—Navajo war chant

Hardened by their life in the haunted Llanowar Forest, these fierce beings are outcasts among elvenkind.



"The little thopters seemed lonely up here, so I thought I'd join them."

For some goods, the best couriers are the dead.
A pretty bauble of persecution.
All that remains of the Cabal are the echoes in its deepest vault. Yet those who hear the echoes feel a power undiminished by the dust of ages.
"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim."
—Sisay


In the cold corridors of the undercity, misinformation unfurls from Duskmantle like a spreading stain.

2016 European Legacy Champion
Those who enter the copse never leave. They find peace there and take root, becoming part of the ever-growing grove.
"When we're aloft, I love to lean over the *Weatherlight*'s railing and watch the patterns the griffins' shadows make on the clouds below."
—Sisay, Captain of the *Weatherlight*
The continent of Ondu is a vast plateau crisscrossed by deep trenches and meandering rivers.
"While the church thinks in terms of legacies, others think in terms of eternities."
"My brain hurts."
The Abzan turn to this spell only as a last resort, for its inevitable result is what they most dread: to be alone.

"May your day never match your expectations."
—Scriptus Fleen, flectomancer
"Hallowed be this gathering of eclectic products!"
The spirits of fallen battlemages can serve their guilds as familiars by joining with any physical form.
"It slips through the smallest cracks in the mountain, emerging whole and unfettered. There is nowhere it cannot go, for what can hold back the air itself?"
—Chanyi, Ojutai monk
A lifetime of keeping up appearances is not enough to earn an eternity of rest.
Deep in Glen Elendra blossoms Oona, queen of the faeries, nourished by secrets and pollinated by stolen dreams.
Aetherborn patrons use any means necessary to secure victory for their protégés.
A full coffin is like a full coffer—both are attractive to thieves.

2005 Vintage Championship Winner


Prismari students dance in the tension between passion and perfection.

In Urborg, few things are less permanent than death.
"Wings are but fins for swimming the sky."
—Empress Galina

"That which was, will be. That which will be, was."
—Kairos Fateweaver
"It cannot be! Soldev crushed, and my machines to blame?"
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
Do not judge a lizard by its size.
—Ghitu proverb
"The foot stone is connected to the ankle stone, the ankle stone is connected to the leg stone . . . ."
—"Song of the Artificer"



"In the drowsy dark cave of the mind, dreams build their nest with fragments dropped from day's caravan."
—Rabindranath Tagore
To keep the dead so others may live.
—Shadow Guild maxim
"What would Urza think, I wonder, if he could hear how the nature mages still snarl at his name, but venerate the work of his apprentice?"
—Teferi, to Jhoira
Zendikar's seas are deeper than anyone can fathom.
"Thallids are not ordinary enemies of flesh and bone and reason. They attack with no thought for our strength or of their own losses. I fear our Fortresses shall be overwhelmed."
—Kyliki of Havenwood
All are welcome.
"What say you, my most trusted advisors? . . . Advisors?"
—Edra, merfolk sovereign
In Amonkhet's ever-shifting sands, nothing stays buried for long.


"Large or small, all will toil for the Great Work."
—Decree of Urabrask
"We coat ourselves in steel every day. What is etherium but the next logical step?"
The Orzhov care not for repentance, only repayment.


"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim."
—Sisay

The River Heralds would wreck a thousand ships to keep intruders from finding the golden city.

To protect the alliance between Kjeldor and Yavimaya, they trained in the ways of both.


The ritual of making draws upon the elves' memories and pasts. And elves have long memories and ancient pasts.
It speaks no commands but is always obeyed.
"It is our duty to protect all those in need. But the other guilds have never shown themselves worthy of that protection."
—Tajic

There's a chance to win every battle.


"You might believe being dead for centuries has made me more lenient. I think you'll find the opposite to be true."
"I've dreamt of a second harvest but fear I will not see it."
—Asmira, holy avenger
"Die. But die knowing that your pathetic life will yield a great bounty for me."
—Zul Ashur, lich lord
"It was right here a second ago . . ."





One part unstoppable force, one part immovable object.
There is no world where angels fear to tread.

In the hold of the *Heart of Kiran*, Chandra answered Dovin Baan's sabotage with an explosive retort.
Only in Ravnica do the wolves watch the flock.

A powerful mage created the roost to guard a portal between the planes. The mage is long gone, but dragons still keep watch at the gate.
Originally created to harvest blinkmoths, the hovermyr are now the silent observers of a dying world.
"Use everything. Iron, rust, scrap . . . even the ground must join our cause."
—Ezuri, renegade leader
On the volcanic continent of Akoum, bizarre vegetation clusters around gas vents, and jagged mountain peaks rise high into the air.

"Reading it has given me a glimpse of what makes this deeply flawed city so very magnificent."
—Dovin Baan
There are few problems that can't be solved by putting a hole in the world.
"Their thoughts flow through my mind, and I am healed."
—Fyndhorn elder




High-ranking plaguebearers of Nurgle's realm ride into realspace mounted upon Rot Flies—colossal daemonic insects whose appearance is so repugnant it scars the mind.


"I am but a humble traveler. I have no taste for sneakery nor thiefiness."



"Ever seen a changeling fly into a lantern?"
—Calydd, kithkin farmer

"Unskin these impure bodies, Great Yawgmoth, that the flesh may welcome your blessings."
—*Phyrexian Scriptures*
It denied the Zendikari the chance to stand and die fighting.
The Blessed Sleep doesn't come easily to a mind chained by regrets.
"May your horns get lodged in an Eldrazi's bony face, ornery brute!"
—Bruse Tarl, Goma Fada nomad



"It was a strange morning. When we awoke, we found our trees transformed. We didn't know whether to water them or polish them."
—Pulan, Bant orchardist


The only place you can be sure it's not is wherever it appears to be.
Her most popular flavors are vanilla, maple pecan crunch, and Glurgian galactopod.
The haunted blade shattered, and the geist drifted gratefully to the Blessed Sleep.
"The stars mark your destiny. May you accept the fate thus divulged."




"When the time comes, only one of you will be honored by my spear."
—Hazoret, god of zeal
Crippling fear precedes it. A foul stench accompanies it. Death follows in its wake.

At the end of the show, she stands alone on a stage brilliant with blood.

Students at the Dekatia Academy learn that being sent to study with her is a lesson in itself.
The quick onyx goblin jumps over the lazy dwarf.
Moments after a fickle rift dropped Stonebrow in the waste of his beloved Krosa, he took up his axe in rage-blind vengeance.


"The blood of Dromoka and the blood of my veins are the same."
Paradoxically, to tilt the massive jug for a sip, you'd need the energy of the giant's tonic.
The problem wasn't that fish had learned how to fly. It was that sharks had adapted to follow them.


"Ach! Hans, run! Get the camera. He's adorable!"
—Steffi Bobsdotter, next words

Its fickle form holds hints of a thousand former identities.

"Urza says he's sane. Perhaps, but measures of sanity among planeswalkers are hard to come by."
—Barrin

"Before you release a Wolverine from the trap, make sure it's really dead."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
Syr Branigan always remembered to kiss his good luck charm, having lost his foot to wolverines the last time he forgot.


"There is nothing you can do that I cannot simply deny."
—Ertai, wizard adept


"Why should one limit oneself to the resources at hand?"


Trapped on Ixalan, the Planeswalker Angrath is the only minotaur sailing the seas. No matter how many ships he captures, he cannot break free.




"In all my years I've only met one mage who successfully trapped a djinn—and none who tried and failed."
—Talibah, embermage

A well-chosen word can restore a mind or snap its tethers.
"The beauty of mental attacks is that your victims never remember them."
—Volrath





"Dragons are feared for their breath and their bite, but it is their wings that make them unconquerable. Bring them to earth, and they die like any other beast."
—Kassur, Sultai hunter
Once he gets up and going, he will forever shamble on.
You need to be this tall to play this card.


She asks pointed questions of the dead who wait for Athreos, learning of life from those who are about to leave it.
Setessan warriors of Bassara Tower are known for their guerrilla tactics and skill with the bow. Interlopers into the Nessian Wood do not get far.
Nature's strength outlives the strong.

Nirkana assassins craft incurable concoctions by mixing basilisk marrow and deathwillow sap with the vital fluids of a dozen other poisonous species.




A blazing sun that never sets.

"Even the most hardened armies are ill-equipped to defend against an onslaught from the sky."


The fire breathes while the air burns.
"Bitten? Save time, amputate now."
—Lephar, loxodon surgeon



"It won't bring them back, but it will bring me peace."

The finest soldiers aren't worth a whit without a set of hands to lead them and a set of eyes to guide them.
The juiciest prey is that which grows lazy, thinking itself beyond the reach of danger.
"Although fragile, the Aeolipile could be quite destructive."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. I*
"The finest minions know what I need without me ever saying a thing."
—Liliana Vess




The city mourned Niv-Mizzet's death, but he left behind the components for his rebirth.
War destroys more than just the land. War destroys hope.

"He's a lot like me, that masterless little kami . . . unimpressed by grandeur and never at a loss for a trick."
—Toshiro Umezawa
No scrap of nutrition goes to waste in the undercity.




Sheoldred weaves every thread of information into a noose to hang her enemies.
Jund is a world as cruel as those who call it home. Their brutal struggles scar the land even as it carves them in its image, a vicious circle spiraling out of control.

Sometimes the wise ones wove their magic into living plants; as the plant grew, so grew the magic.


"We need alternatives, Hanna," yelled Gerrard. "Now!"
"Finally, a weapon the Boros can't confiscate!"
—Juri, proprietor of the Juri Revue


Disaster stalks with gaping jaws across unready lands.
While humans hear only a deafening roar, the fae hear music of breathtaking beauty.



"Bolas remade this place in his image. He has the advantage here. We must approach carefully."
—Jace Beleren

"Today's paperweight, tomorrow's leveler."
—Bruenna, Neurok leader


The first satyr to wake after a revel must search for the site of the next one.
The mind is a fragile thing. Remove the smallest fragment, and the whole thing starts to fall apart.

Mongo's fleas no longer bothered him. But the family of goblins that had moved in behind his left ear was starting to get really irritating.
"Death shall prevail as long as our will falls to rust. May necessity anneal our resolve."
—Ghalma the Shaper

"Keep master busy with new bits or else maybe she wonders if I'm made of bits too."
Dwarves have an instinct for repair, an inherent understanding of how systems work, and a reputation for fearlessness. They're perfect candidates for the Fair's emergency response team.
"It's fun when they run a little."
—Wasitora, Nekoru queen

"It's so cute when it's sleeping, isn't it? Actually, it's still as abhorrent as ever, but at least it's not trying to kill us."
—Noyan Dar, Tazeem lullmage


Cast the weight as though it were a die, to see a rival's fate.

Leave but a shred of root and it will return, bursting with vigor.

"Dragons are our betters, but we will fight them if our dragonlord orders it."
Some fight for honor and some for gold, but the militia fight for hearth and home.
"In our war Heliod gave mortals some favor, yet other times he withheld aid. Are we still no more than game pieces to him?"
—Polyxene the Doubter



"If you can build it, we can move it."
—Bes Tavani, Bomat merchant






"The guilds promise to provide safety. I prefer to make my own."
—Briska, Ninth District freemage
Only the Eldrazi mind thinks in the warped paths required to open the hedrons and tap the power within.

"There are some qualities, some incorporate things, / That have a double life, which thus is made / A type of twin entity which springs / From matter and light, evinced in solid and shade."
—Edgar Allan Poe, "Silence"
"May all the cairns of Jund be toppled."
—Meren of Clan Nel Toth
"It's the perfect sentry. Those who should pass can go right through it."
—Teferi



Zendikar is restless.
The water that a ship sails on is the same water that swallows it up.
—Chinese proverb
Not all monsters have tentacles.
Amid rumors of war, the third act of *The Absolution of the Guildpact* was quickly rewritten as a tragedy.




Adarkar's blank wastes make the mind wander—and stray thoughts are quickly caught and devoured.



To a demon there is no such thing as restraint.
She patrols the darkness so that others can forget their worries for one bright evening.
The stories of his heroics are inspiring, though none of them are remotely true.

The masks, like the ancient trees they're grown from, lend strength to the dryads.

"Victim discovered at dawn with mouth agape and eyes bulging. No evidence of blood loss or dismemberment. Severe bruising around the neck."
—Vallon, Thraben inspector


"No gods. Only each other."

While it possesses potent venom, the giant spider often chooses not to paralyze its victims. Perhaps the creature enjoys the gentle rocking motion caused by its captives' struggles to escape its web.
Urza convinced many Dominarians not only to set aside their differences, but to embrace them.
"Phyrexia is certainly dangerous, but I have to admire some of its innovations."
—Tezzeret
"These Gruul skin-runes—discern whether their patterns evoke streets, leylines, or both. You have four days."
—Niv-Mizzet, to his assistant
The indigo dragon gladly traded a bit of its hoard for everlasting moonlight.
In his hands, the wind can become a weapon or a means of escape.
"Zendikar has suffered enough. It is time, at last, for my home to know peace."






"My priests swore loyalty to the Cabal not until death, but beyond it."
—Cabal Patriarch

The Order of Saint Traft found new strength with Sigarda's support.
"They'd pour out of the warrens to make war (and to make room for the littering matrons)."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV*
The purpose of any moat is to impede attack. Some are filled with water, some with thistles. Some are filled with things best left unseen.
"There shall be a vast shout and then a vaster silence."
—Oracle *en*-Vec



"The specimen seems to be broken."

Perfect for keeping time at a battle or a ball.

Keldon raiders' spoils are limited to what their colos can carry. No matter the value, the rest goes up in smoke.
From Otaria, the sun above meets the sea below at a glittering horizon.
The ground shakes when he walks. His customers shake if they're late with his fee.

Keep off the glass.
—Hydra warning sign
"Day 31: I finally succeeded in my time reversal experiment! "Day 30: I might have a problem here."
—Journal of the Prime Izmagnus

"Inhale life. Exhale pain."
—Mystic elder
"Innistrad's ghoulcallers are talented enough, but let me show you what someone with real power can create."
—Liliana Vess


Though the Luxa River brings life to Naktamun, it's not without dangers.
We asked Captain Soll what became of the Serafina, but all he said was, "Ships that go down shouldn't come back up."

"Don't worry, they don't bite. They much prefer setting people on fire."
—Jaya Ballard, to Chandra


"Altonio? No, I'm sorry. No one by that name works here."
—Raffine
No amount of salt will save you
The combined strength of all five planes spawned creations none had seen before.

A beacon in the night, a dream in the fog.

It hears and answers every orison across Shadowmoor.

There is always a moment of trepidation before opening a message capsule, for fear of the judgment that might be contained within.
"What was once formed by masons, shaped by smiths, or given life by mages, I will return to the embrace of the earth."
"No rest. No mercy. No matter what."
—Memorial inscription


"Tread carefully. You remember what happened in the last quiet, peaceful clearing."
—Halana, to Alena

Healing is a matter of time, but it is sometimes also a matter of opportunity.
—D'Avenant proverb


"Rath grows, and I am nourished."
—Volrath

Instead of performing their daily devotions, Heliod's acolytes spent the morning picking strands of kelp off the altar.




Where the light falls dim and blue on broken ships, secrets lie unclaimed.
Creatures of darkness instinctively hide from the light.
"The Ancients teach us that if we can but last, we shall prevail."
—Kaysa, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order


"For the love of the seven brass gods, it's a city of academics! How are they doing this?"
—Sharaman, Urzan lieutenant

Peace had failed. War had failed. There was only one option left.
It cares more about preserving the herd's territory than about preserving itself.


Greatness, at any cost.

Most human scholars believe that Merfolk are the survivors of sunken Atlantis, humans adapted to the water. Merfolk, however, believe that humans sprang forth from Merfolk who adapted themselves in order to explore their last frontier.
Leukin stared at the smoldering angel feathers. "Run!" he screamed to his patrol. "We don't stand a chance!"




"I've tried so many variations on how to get rid of annoying things that it's hard to decide which one I like best."
—Ashurel, voidmage



"The brood lineages unfolded across the world, each patterned after one of three progenitors, each a study in mindless consumption."
—*The Invokers' Tales*
The evisceration of one mogg always cheers up the rest.







"Planeswalking cannot be taught. Either you see the doors or you do not."
—Nissa Revane

"Control the Great Conduit? You might as well try to divert a river with your hands."
The horizon is tantalizing in both its uncertainty and its potential.
"Stop thinking like an artificer, Urza, and start thinking like a father!"
—Rayne, chancellor of the Tolarian Academy
Only the sun that beats down upon Arashin's walls could shine more brightly.


"Our glorious infection has taken hold."
—Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite

"The wise learn from successes as well as mistakes."

The elves had the edge in guile, skill, and valor. But in the end, only sheer numbers mattered.

Trapped on Ravnica with no affection for either side, Ob Nixilis sought gratification in random acts of torment.
Opening like the maw of a hellion, the earth swallowed the traveler whole.
Tel-Jilad, sanctum of the ancient trolls, keepers of the secret of Mirrodin's origin.
"They say the ruins of Sedraxis were once a shining capital in Vithia. Now it is a blight, a place to be avoided by the living."
—Olcot, Rider of Joffik




One chance. One throw. One perfect hit.
Early Jamuraan hunters devised a weapon that would return to its source. Tolarian Æthermancers developed a spell that skipped the weapon entirely.



Centaurs are sent to evangelize in Gruul territories where words of war speak louder than prayers of peace.
Cantankerous and territorial, sandwurms claim even the skies above their dunes.
Its tines cannot be rung by mere physical force. Only magic of great power can start its eldritch resonance.
Foolishly, Najib retreated to his castle at El-Abar; the next morning he was dead. In just one night, the dwarven forces had reduced the mighty walls to mere rubble.


The Mirari pulses in his veins.

"Don't worry everyone—I hear hoofbeats! The Gavony Riders are coming to save us!"
—Adin, Moorland villager

"Don't mistake my creations for mere vegetation. They are my children, loyal and fierce."
Those who displease Oona soon learn the extent of the armies she commands.


Chandra never believed in using her "inside voice."


"All I ask is complete obedience."
—Nicol Bolas


Their stench was vile and strong enough, but not nearly as powerful as their hunger.



The trick to talking sense into Keldons is getting them to hold still.

A child's whisper could crack its shell, but not even an oni's scream could penetrate it.


Samut's war was intensely personal. Every hour she faced enemies she once loved as friends and horrors she once revered as gods.


"You wish to remember this lesson? I will write it down for you."
—Senifet, vizier of Bontu

On occasion, felidars leave meaty "gifts" outside the tents of explorers they consider worthy.
"I will be your most demanding master, Liliana. But I have great things in mind for you."

Confused but undeterred, the butterflies charged into battle.
"We move because the earth does."
—Bruse Tarl, Goma Fada nomad

Kill a gnarlid with your first blow, or it'll cheerfully show you how it's done.



The model incorporated the fifth sun effortlessly, as if it had always known.
Just as a changeling's influence can have dramatic effects, so too can its sudden withdrawal.


Small words stoke large flames.

The ceiling and the floor fell in love, but only the wall knew.
—Dal saying
"Read the roots tell the tale
Future forms in waving weeds
Higher than truth is hope."
—*Rootwater Saga*


"Don't think of it as debt. Think of it as an investment in yourself."
—Diriga, demon bursar

Crovax was destined for an angel's curse, but one warped timeline saw the noble redeemed.
Mortipede pheromones choke the streets with sickly sweetness, luring the rash and unwary into its waiting jaws.

"They are called Eternals. They will never stop."
—Jace Beleren

Don't try to outrun one of Dominia's Grizzlies; it'll catch you, knock you down, and eat you. Of course, you could run up a tree. In that case you'll get a nice view before it knocks the tree down and eats you.
"Walls crack. Buildings fall. Always the wilds return."
—Domri Rade

The keen-eyed guardians of Ardenvale are ever on alert.
A mudflow swallowed the lowlands years ago. All that remains are a bottomless mire and an endless rain of ash.
Honor the gods of Theros, and they will return the favor.


Fools surrender their sanity to his riddles. Even greater fools try to solve them.
Zombies mourn for the living and celebrate those who will soon be given the gift of death.

Sometimes it's possible to pull a meal out of thin air.

The gurgling of the Marang conceals both footsteps and screams.
"The mist whispers to those who know it to be more than a mundane fog."
Her prophecies amaze her even as she speaks them.



Mogglings have been known to play ball with hibernating slivers, completely unaware of their true nature.
R&D Comments
BB 10/10: Why does a life-gaining card show an old lady killing people?
MR (10/10/03): We'll fix it in the flavor text.

Few who encounter the strange, human-like grove leave once the lilting chorus of the dryads reaches their ears.

"Fear this no more!"

Think of it as a butcher knife with wings.

"Our victories will protect a thousand generations."


"Your voice. Pushing me. Picking me up . . . when all the colors were black."
—Jinx

"I can think of no greater punishment than answering your question in full."
—Lazav


Artifact construction required immense resources.





"Every sword drawn to defend is an angelic blade, guided to justice by an angelic hand."
—Auriok proverb
"Everyone break into teams. Weaponry, you're with me. Nature group, meet by the palm tree. Stoneworks and metalworks, follow the anvil. Everyone else, gather around the giant V."
—Sword of Kaldra
The bigger the purse, the greater the fool.
—Rishadan saying
They can map both the cityscape and the minds of its architects.






Ghouls are often found skulking on the fringes of great battles, showing themselves only to snatch the wounded and weak, dragging their victims screaming into the shadows.


Silent as a snowdrift. Inexorable as an avalanche.
On shining argent wings she came, declaring that no harm would befall her charge.

Her connection to the plane restored, Nissa felt the power of Zendikar surge through her.


"I was born to glory."

The *il*-Kor no longer roam the open plains, but they are still hunters.

It lurks just under the surface, using the algae-choked tar pits of Jund as both home and hunting blind.

"A riddle is nothing more than a trap for small minds, baited with the promise of understanding."

Administrator of the military state of Sheoltun, Tobias is the military right arm of the empire and the figurehead of its freedom.

His blade carves a path for his people. His words guide them along it.




It shambled from the cloud of ash and bone dust, undeterred by its own extinction.



When provoked, a flamekin's inner fire burns far hotter than any giant's forge.



Within each empty skull, it seeks ways to preserve its own failing undeath.
"But I signed nothing!"
—Taraneh, Suq'Ata mage
"There is no greater coward than one who believes in nothing."



Every soldier has a place to stand and a role to play.



As the Cabal legions pushed into Shiv, they learned not to stand so close together.
Esper mages devised their weapons to be so devastating that war seemed unnecessary.


The Consulate recruits its best pilots from the League of Aeronauts. Many go on to command entire fleets.
Ever the warrior, Glissa responded with a "wedgie from beyond Uranus."
Its curve mimics the twists of life and death.
Although officials said it was a sewer failure, the people whispered that it was a warning of night's reach.



"Freyalise has cleansed our bodies and minds of the plagues of Kjeldor; all she asks in return is that we keep pure our newly given home in Fyndhorn."
—Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order



It has no face of its own—it wears that of its latest victim.
"I treat every foe according to the highest codes of conduct. Then I kill them."

"I'd rather hear the screams of battle than the quiet that follows."
—Talara, elvish safewright



'Twas in the bogs of Cannelbrae My mate did meet an early grave 'Twas nothing left for us to save In the peat-filled bogs of Cannelbrae.




"First attempt: unsuccessful. Instead of an amphibious chicken, hybridization produced an aquaphobic fish."

As Gerrard's form vanished into the maw of trees, Hanna mouthed a silent plea, mourning a crushed dream.



Spiteful geists rise from the muck of the Farbogs, eager to lure travelers to their doom.





"Those without beauty are Lorwyn's greatest tumor. The winnowers have an unpleasant duty, but a necessary one."
—Eidren, perfect of Lys Alana
A fruit must rot before its seed can sprout.
—Yavimaya saying
"Don't wander far—it's a bit nippy out there!"
—Leidurr, expedition leader
Time moves in mysterious ways.

Beneath the Tangle, the wurm tunnels stretch . . . wide as a stone's throw, long as forever, deep as you dare.



He protects the fetid bog from light, life, and the hideous sound of laughter.
As no one has ever accepted a second invitation to Davvol's table, the evincar often dines alone.




When Titania offered peace, Urza merely turned her down. Mishra made her people pay for the insult.
To a fire elemental, fools and fuels are one and the same.

History has buried its treasures deep.

"The bonds of loyalty can tie one to the grave."
—Crovax

Benalia has a complex caste system that changes with the lunar year. No matter what the season, the only caste that cannot be attained by either heredity or money is that of the hero.
"The Kolaghan send them at us. We kill and raise them. They fight the next wave the Kolaghan send. It's a neat little cycle."
—Asmala, Silumgar sorcerer
"Soaring is wasted on the winged."
—Edric, Spymaster of Trest


The Agents of S.N.E.A.K.—Sinister Nerds Eliminating All Knowledge.
All at once Sarkhan's mind fell silent.
"Aye, the foul beast chomped me, but I got away. You'd best believe when I find it again, it won't get away so easy."



Thieves know that a snarl in the night means, "Rob another house."



"Might doesn't just build empires. It protects them."
—Inti, Sun Empire knight


Automaton inspectors ensure that the Consulate's stringent standards for mass production are upheld.
The day is born within its branches.
"Nope, there's nothing here either. You guys go on ahead, I'll catch up in a minute. . . . Whoo hoo!"

Offerings must first be freed from the prison of their own skin before they're welcomed into the Flesh Singularity.
"Burn their fleet to the waterline, and sink whatever's left."
—Angrath
"I'll have my revenge if I have to call on every force from above and below."

Even when the flesh grows cold, knowledge waits in the bones for a master to release it.
"Words of power never disappear. They sleep, awaiting those with the will to rouse them."
Otaria's last defense against the wave of chaos threatening to engulf it.
"You cannot achieve greatness if its seed has not already been planted in your heart."

"As a boulder diverts a stream, the crystals bend life around them."
—Rielle, the Everwise








A hollow dog is never empty. It is filled with thirst for the hunt.
Prismari students dance in the tension between passion and perfection.



They inflict pain to forget their own and break foes to feel whole.





"Take a quiet moment to reflect on your sins."
—Cleph, Order of Redeemed Souls

"Bring forth the dead, their skull-grins and rattle-bones. We will feast upon their wailing ghosts."
—Silumgar, translated from Draconic
"He outran arrows. He outran even the archers' insults."
—Bayma, storyteller of Lagonna Band

After the first rotation, the dressage phase begins.


When the blood hunt lost its thrill, she looked for less tangible means of domination.
"Just the thing for those pesky water mages."
—Jaya Ballard, Task Mage

"Like a sugar stick with wings!"
—Squee, goblin cabin hand
She crushes darkness beneath her charger's hooves.
"If the populace fears our authority, then I'd say we have an appropriately sensible populace."
—Dovin Baan
"Why limit yourself to mortal law when you can outlive those who enforce it?"
—Czaric, Orzhov prelate





Take away a few things, and a rebellion may ensue. Take away everything, and the oppression will be accepted as fate.
"Told you it would melt."
To the sorrow of all, its fire was turned toward those who worshipped it.




A heavy net doesn't always mean a good catch.
"Homarids spread northward from Sarpadia as the climate cooled, raiding coastal settlements for supplies."
—*Time of Ice*
"You are not alone. You never were."

"As the experimental population grows, so do the number of myr. It's a perfect equilibrium."
—Memnarch

Dragon whelps face few threats besides their own enthusiasm.



"Good soldiers rely first upon their training, then upon their instincts."
—King Darien of Kjeldor
"I give them dreams so wondrous that they hesitate to return to the world of the conscious."
—Garild, merfolk mage




"It's not work if you enjoy it."






As you pause mid-climb to catch your breath, you'd swear you can hear a heartbeat pulsing deep within the mountain.
Fire giants love to fight on a large scale, and Duke Zalto is one of the greatest warmongers of his age.

"With angels came mysteries."
—Tamiyo's journal


"Yavimaya is aware, but not always awake. You will know the difference when you see it."
—Karn


The imps' warbling cries echo through Phyrexia's towers like those of mourning doves in a cathedral.
Volrath leaves no stone untrained.
The academy's libraries were protected by fire-prevention spells. Even after the disaster, the books were intact—though forever sealed in time.


In the dim light beneath the vast trees of Deepglade, baloths prowl in search of prey. Their guttural calls are more felt than heard, but their attack scream carries for miles.


Some warriors walk the earth. Others are born of it.
"If I am to die, I will die in the embrace of immeasurable flame."
The Astrotorium adds new attractions almost as fast as Captain Nebula can crash them into asteroids.
The merrow took a moment for herself. She never gave it back.
There is no boat big enough.
Kicking the warren
—Argivian expression meaning "causing trouble"
A weapon of darkness for a warrior of light.

"I am condemned without end."
—Crovax
A mirror, a shield, a promise, a great distance, and a kind word—five ways to avoid harm.
The mighty city of An Karras, with its rich history, built over thousands of years, fell in three hours.
Wirewood's beasts didn't seem to mind when the elves moved in. In fact, they hardly noticed them underfoot.
Its courtyards are lit during every hour of the day so that night may never fall within its walls.

When the Mirran resistance arrived, the furnace dwellers looked to Urabrask for guidance. His decree stunned the others: "Let them be."

The Host sings of Avacyn's return without a single verse about its own suffering.
The Patriarch dreams of vile plague.
As the Cabal legions pushed into Shiv, they learned not to stand so close together.

The Orzhov started using hawks as messengers in order to bypass the many toll roads and bridges that dot Ravnica. Soon the service became one of their most profitable businesses.
No true angels have been created since the founding of New Capenna, but artisans have learned to craft elegant facsimiles.

Measure once, cut twice.

"Animals commune with their environment without the need for language. Theirs is a fundamental connection that surpasses flimsy words."
—Vivien Reid
"Hop away now, little Eternal. Go eat some flies."
—Kasmina

"We speak the dragons' language of flame and rage. They speak our language of fury and honor. Together we shall weave a tale of destruction without equal."
Renata led the best hunters in all of Theros on a quest to bring down the terror of the Setessan wilds.
Clouds are the soil, dreams are the crop.
—Kor saying



"As this conflict grows, it gets harder to prevent the city from breaking down. How much longer can we keep this machinery balanced?"



Many Elven Fortresses weren't built by masons and carpenters, but created from the living forest itself.

There was more malice in its button eyes than should have been possible in something that had never known life.

"I don't understand. He's normally so well behaved!"
She had expected death to roar, to thunder, to growl. She did not recognize it when it came hissing to her side.

Most of the constructs the renegades used against the Consulate weren't originally intended for combat. But some didn't require much modification.



The Orzhov hear the plans of the other guilds through the guilty thoughts of the disloyal.
The nomadic kor carry only necessities on their long treks. The coming of the Eldrazi redefined "necessities."





You haven't see it until you see it in 6-D.


Many names and many memories bound together in grim purpose.
Artifact construction requires immense resources.





Hands weave life and death; Intertwining spirits knit Tapestries and shrouds.
D'Haren stared at the twisted lump of metal that had been a prized artifact. The fight was getting ugly.
"...There was no trace/ Of aught on that illumined face..." —Samuel Coleridge, "Phantom"


"She sees beyond technology to what it enables."
—Glacian, powerstone engineer


Poets dream the verses of otherworldly stories. Artificers dream the blueprints of otherplanar artifacts.

"Right now you are a feeble stick, but I will help you grow some rings."


Born with wings of light and a sword of faith, this heavenly incarnation embodies both fury and purity.

Most human scholars believe that Merfolk are the survivors of sunken Atlantis, humans adapted to the water. Merfolk, however, believe that humans sprang forth from Merfolk who adapted themselves in order to explore their last frontier.
"Yavimaya is one being—one vastness of rippling leaves, one deepness of roots, and one chatter of animals—of which I am one part."



Urza threw himself into his research, pushing the boundaries of both possibility and morality.


They lived in different nations and fought in different eras, but as the Returned, they link arms as one.

Both Wu and Wei warships patrolled the Yangtze River, the natural border between the two kingdoms.
The first Yawgmoth priest to harness their power was rewarded with several unique mutilations.


"With precise coordination and enough blood spilled, one can be driven off, even brought down. But two . . . that's a lot of blood."
—Munda, ambush leader

Outside the safety of Thraben, there is little distinction between tool and weapon.


The destruction of Rhonas's monument released his collection upon the city.









"Every forest is carpeted with the corpses of a thousand trees."
—Baron Sengir to Autumn Willow
A solution in search of a problem.

Castle Vantress has no locks on its doors, but interlopers rarely make it past the foyer.


There were no tombstones in orochi territory. Slain warriors were buried with a tree sapling, so they would become a part of the forest after death.
"His tenement is filled with the most vile, disgusting vermin. It's infested with rats, too."
—Branko One-Ear
As it twists, so does all life around it.

"To die failing to save a loved one is just so sad—or, more to the point, pathetic."
—Liliana Vess





The spite of the Cabal turns meadow into mire.

Even after the wall was breached in half a dozen places, the phalanxes fought on, standing solidly against the onrushing raiders. Disciplined and dedicated, they held their ranks to the end, even in the face of tremendous losses.
Woven from threads of the spirit world, the mistcloak rendered its wearer invisible, but quickly fell to tatters.




In the Skyfang Mountains, one misstep can mean the end of an entire clan.


A hungry lair of flourishing rot.



The Izzet signet is redesigned often, each time becoming closer to a vanity portrait of Niv-Mizzet.



Because the elves are so in touch with Mirrodin's nature, they understand best how to dismantle it.
The red envelopes guarantee safe passage through the Lurenbraum barrier. Olivia left strict instructions: no invitation, no entry, no exceptions.

"We've bred out the shortcomings of the species' natural form and replaced them with assets of our own design."
—Momir Vig




Inscribed with runes that predate the dragon, its horns possess their own ancient magic.
The Nightmare arises from its lair in the swamps. As the poisoned land spreads, so does the Nightmare's rage and terrifying strength.

After their first encounter, the goblins named him Chuck.
"Flittering, wheeling, / darting in to strike, and then / gone just as you blink." —"Dragonfly Haiku," poet unknown
The Street Swarm is the labor class that drives the Golgari's endless cycle of life and death.



Gorgons crave beautiful things: gems, exquisite amulets, the alabaster corpses of the petrified dead . . .

Decades to build. Hours to demolish.
"I always charge a little extra to take on a pegasus. They fly like eagles, kick like mules, and hide like hermits."
—Tahli *en*-Dal, bounty hunter



"If you keep to the shallows, you'll never learn the secrets of the depths."
2017 North American Legacy Champion

Anyone who thinks merrows have more brains than brawn has never been run over by one.
"Good neighbors make good walls."
—Jakkarak the Maimer



Dominaria's most extravagant crypt nevertheless holds an empty grave.
"To join our ranks, one must be pure. To be pure, one must be blessed by etherium. To be blessed, one must forget oneself."
—Ethersworn prayer
The shield of unimpeachable purity is as strong as any wrought on the anvil.


The Hold, an illegal research facility in a derelict merchant ship, became a wellspring of renegade intelligence.
Hope of deliverance is scorched by the fire of futility.


"The construction of a defense is not accomplished by adding bricks."
—Jace Beleren
Protection is woven into every vine and branch.
"I have seen things that would reduce a weaker person to blubbering and raving. Want to hear about them?"
—Vraska
One bone broken for every twig snapped underfoot.
—Llanowar penalty for trespassing
Its powers are simple—mind over matter. Or rather, an immeasurable mind disassembling and reconfiguring matter.


"The only action worth taking is one with an unknown outcome."
Urza always put Tocasia's lessons on resource-gathering to effective use.
Seeds from Jund don't drift gently on the wind. They get up and stampede.



"To escape Littjara, follow a bird."
—Tuskeri folklore

Khorne's sole desire is to drown the galaxy in a tide of slaughter. To conquer and kill every living thing, until there is nothing left but spilled blood and shattered bone.

"Glok loved storms! He'd sit an' watch an' laugh through the whole thing. I miss him."
—Squee, goblin cabin hand
"What we begin, the End-Raze will finish. Then we will dance in Ravnica's rubble."
—Nikya of the Old Ways

The biggest difference between a victory and a massacre is which side you're on.



"Steering apparatus?! What for? Rip it out, sharpen it, and lash it to the front!"
—Ktank, Gruul plowmaster

"To be in the presence of a revoker is to be truly alone."
—Kara Vrist, Neurok agent
"Wherever there is life, there is power for one who knows the old ways."

Viashino thrashes are led by elders who have survived countless challenges.
"Ah, another future archmage for my collection."
"He bears the marks of ages upon his skin, memories of dreams long dead and best left buried."
—*The Seer's Parables*
Transformed at his own wedding, he promptly ate the banquet, the gifts, and the guests.







"Shall we turn away a worthy soul because his parents were peasants? I think not."
—Lucilde Fiksdotter, Leader of the Order of the White Shield

Without Vantress's knowledge, the realm would lose itself in darkness.
Knight-stewards guard the Sun-Dappled Court, a grove of immense, sculptured olive trees that represent Valeron's twelve noble families.

More than one mage has been driven insane by the sound of the millstone relentlessly grinding away.

We asked Captain Soll what became of the Serafina, but all he said was, "Ships that go down shouldn't come back up."
To become king of the Goblins, one must assassinate the previous king. Thus, only the most foolish seek positions of leadership.


"Most wizards consider a thunderbolt to be a proper retort."
—Ertai, wizard adept





Some nature mages unknowingly took advantage of the temporal energies still swirling on Dominaria. What they mistook for healing magic was in fact the manipulation of time.





The people of Tarkir speak of an ancient legend, of the dragon-man called Sarkhan who was greatest of all khans.
"We train for the improbable, like lightning striking the same place twice, or striking everywhere at once."
—Nundari, Sea Gate militia captain



"The southern fortress taken by invaders? Heh, sure . . . when elephants fly."
—Brezard Skeinbow, captain of the guard
Where fickle form meets lasting loyalty.
"Let the lightning be your warning, and the thunder your battle cry."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
The streets of Ravnica are full of former guild members now using their institutional skills for personal gain.






The model incorporated the fifth sun effortlessly, as if it had always known.


"I could see in the other mage's eyes that he'd thought of it too. Then it became a race to exploit the knowledge first."
The same spears that catch their food today will defend their homes tomorrow.
Fairgoers were delighted to find that even outside the fairgrounds, Ghirapur was a city of wonders.
The limbs of Pendelhaven extend as far as the meek roam, and reach as high as they strive.
"Have no illusions," Volrath warned Greven, "about free will."
"Yes, I think 'toast' is an appropriate description."
—Jaya Ballard, Task Mage




"The Reito Massacre was a testament to the kami's unstoppable power. The human defenders might as well have been moths battling a forest fire."
—*Great Battles of Kamigawa*

"The sight of my thallids still thriving is a bittersweet welcome to this cold waste."


A thin shell lies between the roc and a world of bite-sized treats.



"Emeria is a pleasant lie, a figment to hide Emrakul's hideous face. I can only hope to uncover a truth that lies deeper still."



It gnashed its teeth, and the battlefield filled with the screech of blade striking blade.
"Fair fight? I'll take survival over chivalry any day!"
—Tor Wauki, Bandit King
Designed by Mike Neumann
His marvels of artifice pale in comparison to the developing machinery of his mind.
The Crave made Kneecleaver think she was bigger than the dragon.
Made of bone and boiled in blood, a Rakdos signet is not considered finished until it has been used as a murder weapon.
The earth cannot hold that which magic commands.
Today it's a miracle of architecture, a marvel of stained glass, a symbol of the Legion's power. Tomorrow, driftwood.


"Make me thy lyre, even as the forest is: What if my leaves are falling like its own!"
—Percy Bysshe Shelley,
"Ode to the West Wind"
The viziers serving Rhonas, the god of strength, maintain the menagerie of animals employed during his trial.

Loxodons are firm in stature and spirit. No matter the odds, they are always first into battle.
"I've stood by Mishra's side from the beginning. I will not abandon him now."
A master of tactics, the Lord of Atlantis makes his people bold in battle merely by arriving to lead them.

"It's them or us."
—General Kudro


"The specimen seems to be broken."

"Places, everyone!"
—Judith

"It is not just our people I try to rescue. It is our culture, and our hope that we can return to greatness."
"It reflects the purity of Mirrodin-that-was."
—Koth of the Hammer
"The Burning Isles are the home to a dozen lords who claim dominion. Jamuraa will look to only one leader: me."
—Kaervek
As blood touched the empty page, it formed words that seared themselves into the wizard's mind.
Forged in dark hours from the flame that would not die.





Some worlds possess a hidden core where life's essence constantly surges.





Though less well-known than its army of soldiers, the Boros Legion's mage-priests are as respected by the innocent as they are hated by the ghosts of the guilty.

The goblin fancied himself a rider. The lizard was happy with its new flail.


"Men and rats both hunger: we for our playthings; they, for us."
—Crovax, ascendant evincar
One night Oona bottled the sky. The next night she aligned the stars and released it.

At full moon, the river seeps over its banks and crawls through the woods like a blanket of serpents.




"Don't give up! You are steel and fire, and victory is yours to seize."

The passing years add new rings to the tree's trunk, bolstering the spirits that dwell within.

They built the neighborhood. They know its weak points. They know all the hiding places. When they come for you, they'll find you and bring the roof down on your head.
Sometimes everyone decides to go for help at the same time.
The world is the body. The mana is the blood. The witch is the surgeon.

The student searches the world for meaning. The master finds worlds of meaning in the search.




"Landing zone is clear. Activate and deploy!"

Even in the relative safety of the city, there are places best left undisturbed.



The elves and merfolk have nothing but bitterness for each other. The trolls, however, find them both rather tasty.
An Esper mage will leave a hole in your memory with surgical precision. A Grixis mage sees no reason to be so kind.

After years of training, the Druid becomes one with nature, drawing power from the land and returning it when needed.

Karplusan legend told of an orc so cruel that he burned his own followers in rage—yet so revered that they rose from their pyres to serve him.


"They say the ruins of Sedraxis were once a shining capital in Vithia. Now it is a blight, a place to be avoided by the living."
—Olcot, Rider of Joffik

"'Do you know, I always thought Unicorns were fabulous monsters, too? I never saw one alive before!' 'Well, now that we have seen each other,' said the Unicorn, 'if you'll believe in me, I'll believe in you.'" —Lewis Carroll


"Their hearts beat, their lungs draw breath, and they have one true form. I count them as allies of the living."
—Thalia, Knight-Cathar



"STUFF AND SUNDRIES AND MUNITIONS!"
—Breeches, gunner of the *Belligerent*





"All of life's problems can be solved—death included."
—Nymara, Rhodosi dreadlord


Shadow lances are crafted from harvested souls. The more wicked the sinner, the keener the blade.
The chains obey her. Everything else would do best to get out of her way.
"May knowledge be our sanctuary."
—Yora, academy researcher


Mongo's fleas no longer bothered him. But the family of goblins that had moved in behind his left ear was starting to get really irritating.


Within it rests the power of a sun, and none of the warmth.
Mages often seek to emulate the powerful relics lost to time and apocalypse.


The scouring sands of Shefet polish its carapace, and the ranks of the cursed fill its belly.

A demon cannot be trusted, and a dragon will not be ruled.
"One touch to the stone and the sidar's son turned me from stalwart to statue."
—Karn, silver golem
"Multani's heart is a seed, and all of Yavimaya is its flower. There is as much life here as in the rest of Dominaria together."
—Karn


Some potmakers claim to use the mud of such creatures to make their finest bowls—and that the bowls scream when fired.

"When the fishtails' threats of magic didn't move me, they set their pet on us."
—Tahngarth of the *Weatherlight*

"No need for a hurda? How about these maps to recently discovered tombs? Or these vials of invisible potion? Very fancy . . ."

"Not Gruul? Then die!"
—Borborygmos
In the quiet of the Somberwald, new horrors stir.





"Remember the rules. No spells to the face!"


"It is the way of most wizards to begin by exiling themselves and to end by exiling everyone else."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator
"Here lies Gond, hero of Safehold Taldwen. May he ever guide our quest."

"My liege will lead and I will follow—to the battlefield, to the grave, and beyond."
Not choosing sides in a war can be dangerous—but lucrative.

"I stand for every cobbler, tanner, and fool in this town—and they stand for me."
"Uh-hunh."

There's always room for one more.
"I know they're unstoppable fighters created to harvest souls—it's just they're so rude about it."
—Kaya

"I fight for Keranos and for mortals. I see no contradiction."
A mark of unity when you want one; a fierce guardian when you need one.
"The hermit dies. The outcast dies. The lone wolf dies. Only those who stick together survive this world."
—Uros, Pendelhaven elder
"Rise, my pretty thing. Why rot in the river when you can serve at my bidding?"
Squee tucked the warm ball in his pocket and slipped a pebble in its place. "Glok," he mumbled, and hid.
"Why does it destroy? It does, and to talk of reasons wastes time and breath."
—Nirthu, lone missionary





"All will know of your crimes."


"When he reached the entrance of the cavern, he pronounced the words, 'Open, Sesame!'"
—*The Arabian Nights*, Junior Classics trans.
"It's hard to say which is more satisfying: the search for that missing piece or fitting that piece into place."
—Evo Ragus
Devils find human dwellings to be oppressively cold, dark, and unburnt.
It lurks in the mist, waiting for stragglers to fall behind. When the fog clears, nothing remains but footprints.



Vulshok mana rituals echo the day when the red sun burst through Mirrodin's surface to take its place in the heavens.
It flees from anything that isn't shaped like a cloud.
The land is heavy with promise, the harvest ripe with betrayal.
At Feather's command, squadrons of battle angels swarmed out of the *Parhelion II*, unsheathing blades made of molten dawn.

"One day the mountain's fire will rise up to burn away our chains and end this age of oppression."
—*The Molten Prophecy*
"The living cannot understand the benefits of death."
—Chaeska, Keeper of Tresserhorn




"Let insight and energy be your guides."
—The Blind Seer, to Gerrard



The crocodiles' putrid jaws swallow everything but the screams.
Linger on death's door and risk being invited in.
"The city is overrun. I would say burn it to the ground, but that won't be necessary."
—Inquisitor Delmund
Fiko summoned only atogs for three straight sessions. The tutor couldn't decide whether to punish his failure or praise his consistency.
"Avacyn emerged from the broken Helvault, but her freedom came at a price—him."
—Thalia, Knight-Cathar
In the blur between metal and flesh, Memnarch found madness.




A fruit must rot before its seed can sprout.
—Yavimaya saying

"They'll soon become accustomed to wearing skin that is not their own."
—Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite





"Oi oi oi, me gotta hurt in 'ere, Oi oi oi, me smell a ting is near, Gonna bosh 'n gonna nosh 'n da hurt'll disappear." —Traditional
On the volcanic continent of Akoum, bizarre vegetation clusters around gas vents, and jagged mountain peaks rise high into the air.

Ancient lore locked in a mind driven mad is just as safe as when it was locked deep underground.

"I'm sure it came with the place. I don't think you build one on purpose."
—Gerrard
All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.
"C'mon, choose 'monkey.' Everybody loves monkeys!"

"There shall be a vast shout and then a vaster silence."
—Oracle *en*-Vec
Scavengers are always the first to pay their respects.

Man's best fungus.










"Interrogation is an unnecessary step for acquiring information."
—Politus, Gitaxian morphologist
The magus still hears the roar of the crowds. They're gone, but the will to compete remains.
"Bolas remade this place in his image. He has the advantage here. We must approach carefully."
—Jace Beleren

Orim regarded Gerrard coolly. "You are like the drake," she said, her expression unchanging. "It works hard to maintain its position, but to us it seems to glide along effortlessly. You *must* do the same."



This strange beast has the hide of a leopard, the howl of a dog, and the horns of an ox.






"Let the song of Selesnya be heard above the rhythm of our thundering hordes!"


"Is it purebred? No, but it's pure fire."
—Chandra Nalaar
Intent: This illustration uses an existing visual gag that shows the moments before and after a spell was cast. We'd like you to use this visual gag for a spell that destroys a creature.
The scepter of power is fragile in a calloused hand.
—Cho-Arrim saying
Many an ancient treasure has been reduced to jagged caltrops by its snapping jaws.


The cars are serviced every ten thousand bumps or every four hours, whichever comes first.
The heavier the load, the harder it works.

"If you work at sawing up carcasses, you notice how the joints fit, how the nerves are arrayed, and how the skin peels back."
—Ashnod, to Tawnos
"All we know about the Krosan Forest we have learned from those few who made it out alive."
—Elvish refugee
"No bird soars too high, if he soars with his own wings."
—William Blake, *The Marriage of Heaven and Hell*
"If that thief Joven ever shows his head around here again, make sure he leaves without it."
—Eron the Relentless
There were no tombstones in orochi territory. Slain warriors were buried with a tree sapling, so they would become a part of the forest after death.

She spins a web few can resist. Its sweet aroma sparks chaos in every heart.


"Just looking at it fills me with dread . . . . Yet since it arrived, I've done little else. My blades have dulled and my business has failed, and still I cannot look away."
—Keisaku, master swordmaker
"This is our land. We will not allow eyeblights to poison its beauty."


"Dong Zhuo's man, Lu Bu, warrior without peer,/ Far surpassed the champions of his sphere."

Life is such a fragile thing.
Though their work is widely reviled, stitchers see themselves as being on the cutting edge of science.
When Otarians learned not to trust wizards, the wizards learned to adapt.





"I used to hurl rocks and eat scraps of meat burned over a fire. Look at what I've become and tell me Simic does not hold infinite possibility."

Hanna was astounded. Mirri read every leaf and wisp of breeze like a book of ancient lore.
The Thran's machines were not dead after all, merely dormant . . . and waiting.
The mizzium-sphere array drove her mind deep into the thought field, where only the rarest motes of genius may be plucked.
Each individual has their own crucial role to play.

"No symphony can compare to the melody of the ferrox's roar."




"What is this that is neither future nor past?"

Her connection to the plane restored, Nissa felt the power of Zendikar surge through her.



In life, it was a fetid, disease-ridden thing. In death, not much changed.
It wasn't long until the elves had developed a use for every part of the Eldrazi.
"Kneel before a dragon and you will be spared when it turns to leave."
—Yikaro, Atarka warrior
Avacyn's holy warriors kept hope alive in her darkest hours. Now they will carry that hope across Innistrad.
"I swore to take one head for each member of my family they killed. My task is nowhere near its end."

"I am as the wind that bears me: harsh yet gentle, fleeting yet ever-present. Together we fly beyond imagination."


What these devices lacked in subtlety, they made up in strength.


"It has been my honor to improve on the Thran's original design. Perhaps history will remember me in some small part for my work."
—Urza, in his apprenticeship


Does it reflect the future that once was or the past that can never be?

"Was that *it*?"
—Ertai, wizard adept
The mask confers both the prowess of a falcon and its loyalty.
Those who are chosen do not doubt. Those who remain do not lament.

"Our Elvish Hunter Taaveti led us swiftly along hidden paths through the dense forest. We caught the Orcs from behind, and completely by surprise."
—Lucilde Fiksdotter, Leader of the Order of the White Shield


"Hold the line, hold the li—"
—General Srok, last words

When a dragon attacks, there are no bystanders.
Imps are just intelligent enough to have an understanding of cruelty.




"Limits exist solely to test the will."
Devils sow chaos and reap panic.
"We are the shield that never breaks, the bough that never burns, the song that can never be silenced."


"It's a multifunctional radial extension system with superlateral, force-amplifying rigging. Of course it will win."
"When you're on watch, no noise is harmless and no shadow can be ignored."
—Olgard of the Skiltfolk
"In these troubled times, we alone carry the hope of reconciliation between Elf and Human."
—Jaeuhl Carthalion, Juniper Order Advocate

The more you struggle against death, the tighter its grip becomes.
They put the "special" in special weapons and tactics.
The last thing anyone would describe you as is shy. You love the spotlight, and it loves you back.




Without the care of the tideshapers, the Lanes lie neglected. Some have flooded entire towns; others dried to cracked mud.
Sunhome—the stalwart shield, the towering sentinel, the seat of justice.
Its teeth exist only for decoration.

Unlike previous conflicts, the war between Urza and Mishra made Dominia itself a casualty of war.

"We've merged your life essence with that of several creatures at once. You're welcome."
—Speaker Trifon


Dwell longest on the thoughts that shine brightest.



"If I wanted your opinion, I'd have told you what it was."
—Pemmin, Riptide survivor

"Serra, like Feroz, is long since dead. But remember, Daria: her spirit shall survive so long as the Homelands do."
—Taysir
"We orphans of Fyndhorn have found no welcome in this alien place."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, Elvish Hunter
"Aren't there boggarts enough in Lorwyn? Couldn't it turn into a sheep? Or a sunflower?"
—Olly of Goldmeadow

"Sheesh! How am I supposed to make a decent living around here?"
—Cabal grave robber

"Impurities must be pounded out."
It's harvest time.




If it possesses an ability to understand and appreciate life, it has never shown it.

From every shadow came the dull scratch of teeth on bones.
Jin-Gitaxias had long coveted the secrets of planeswalking. Spirits that could pass between worlds made for perfect test subjects.
"Pound the steel until it fits. Doesn't work? Bash to bits."
—Dwarven forging song
The helix was the finest example of Mishra's campaign strategy: if he couldn't have Argoth, no one could.
She learned a tragic lesson that day: even the purest can be corrupted when the heart's emotions are twisted.


"We're not at odds with the woods. How could we be, when we share so many enemies?"
—Marel, Dawnhart witch

"The Shifting Wastes provide our clan eternal protection. It is our duty to return the favor."
—Kadri, Dromoka warrior
"If fear is the only tool you have left, then you'll never control me."
—Xantcha, to Gix

"Are you *sure* you want to do that?"
"I will return / with lizard skins for your sandals. Paint your eyes black and wait for me."
—"Love Song of Night and Day"

No two see the same Maro.



Eight legs carrying endless phobias.
When the Planeswalker Angrath called dinosaurs "dragons," the name stuck in certain pirate circles.
After a certain point, it becomes more of a prison than a ride.

Freed from their respective labs, the two weirds formed a partnership, feeding on the arcane energies of war.
Sometimes you die a glorious death with your sword held high. Sometimes you're just target practice.

Before the officiant even had a chance to ask if anyone objected to the Voldaren-Markov union, Arlinn made her opinion known.
Ulamog's progeny swarm the land, draining Zendikar's mana to feed the titan's insatiable hunger.


Like a kettle set to boil, it must eventually go off—on someone.





Nothing's more valuable than perfect timing.




Earth arms itself with fire.

Urza's metathran children were conceived, birthed, and nurtured by an integrated system of machines.
"Nothing is truly your own. It is his, whether you know it or not."
—*The Seer's Parables*


"My plan's elegance leads my enemies to believe it is spite that fuels me."
—Volrath


"We all hide a little madness behind our sophistication, do we not?"
For a dozen years the Cage had held Lord Ith, but as the Pretender Mairsil's power weakened, so did the bars.
Like a single ant, it only hints at the colony below.

"I can't imagine how anyone lives in Shiv, let alone why they choose to stay."
—Sisay
One bone broken for every twig snapped underfoot.
—Llanowar penalty for trespassing


From the fertile muck of Zagoth, everything—animal, botanical, and crystalline—grows with rugged beauty.
Tomorrow belongs to those who prepare for it today.
Weeping, the hunter cast aside her bow, struck by the majesty of the creature before her.
She knows your next move before you do.

There are things beneath the murk for whom the bog is a stew, a thin broth in need of meat.


"A gargoyle's meat can be carved with an ordinary cleaver, but for its petrous hide . . ."
—Asmoranomardicadaistinaculdacar, *The Underworld Cookbook*
Not wind, but the breath of the dead.


"We drove the Sun Empire out of the forest long ago, and we will not let them return."



She is adept at navigating the stadium's ever-changing landscape.
"Anyone can admire creation. Only a barbarian sees the beauty in demolition."
—Kamahl, pit fighter
"Healing is more art than magic. Well, there is still quite a bit of magic."

"Heel."

The fatal flaw in every plan is the assumption that you know more than your enemy.
It is said that the wind will blow the world past if you wait long enough.
It eagerly gobbles up bits of its own rotting flesh as they fall to the swampy ground.
The myr are like the Glimmervoid: blank canvases on which to build grand creations.
Artifact construction requires immense resources.

"Those without beauty are Lorwyn's greatest tumor. The winnowers have an unpleasant duty, but a necessary one."
—Eidren, perfect of Lys Alana



A savage cry with the power to shatter minds.
Though the old holy wards and roadside shrines have begun to fail, faith in Avacyn still holds true power.




Dragons of Silumgar's brood begin to digest their prey even before consuming it, letting their caustic breath do much of the work.



It puts the "fur" in "fury."
My thunder comes before the lightning; my lightning comes before the clouds; my rain dries all the land it touches. What am I?
—Femeref riddle

"I would say that our Bureaucrats are no better than vipers—but I shouldn't insult the vipers."
—Murat, Death Speaker
Each plaguebearer is formed from the blighted soul of a mortal slain by Nurgle's Rot.
"The tempest is the only ally I need."

Once guarded by the Knights of the Reliquary, the tower stands now protected only by its own remoteness, its dusty treasures open to plunder by anyone.
"Hallowed be this compilation of mixed objects!"
"Magic overused can freeze the mind. Creativity is more important than power."
—Zur the Enchanter


"Don't quit now, we're almost done.
Then we'll build another one!"


"Guaranteed to leave your enemies sufficiently stabbed, bitten, cleaved, or exploded."
—Grezkrick's Emporium motto



Take two steps north into the unsettled future, south into the unquiet past, east into the present day, or west into the great unknown.







"The hooves of the Raze-Boar will trample the weak—and their city—to dust!"



"Those without beauty are Lorwyn's greatest tumor. The winnowers have an unpleasant duty, but a necessary one."
—Eidren, perfect of Lys Alana
A boon to those who cannot see in the dark. A bane to those who live in it.


Toren had stepped on a lot of bugs during his life, so he couldn't help feeling embarrassed when a bug stepped on him.


"She is a theme of honor and renown, . . . Whose present courage may beat down our foes."
—William Shakespeare, *Troilus and Cressida*

"Only a mind unfettered with the concerns of the flesh can see the world as it truly is."
Death greeted the world with a roar of desert air.
In the tight-knit doun of Mistmeadow, death is less important than duty.

"I was not convinced you had a soul until I saw it for myself."
—Liliana Vess
Every disaster holds mystery, for lack of a sane witness.
In the future, she may be a distinguished leader, a great scholar, or a decorated hero. These days all she does is pee the bed.
Whether it howls for hunger or for joy, you're in trouble just the same.
Starke believes in situational ethics—the situation determines the ethics. He's switched sides so often that he has become everyone's ally yet no one's friend. This former merchant of Rath accompanies the *Weatherlight* crew on their journey to his home world.

Death by death, Kozilek's lineage spread.

Lanterns carved from the mystic stones of the Reito Mines were said to light the way of lost souls.




Where dryads dance, seeds sprout and flowers bloom.


Though long held captive beneath Volrath's stronghold, the sliver queen is actually freer than most of Rath's denizens. Her maternal instincts always take precedence—even when they conflict with the evincar's agenda—and through her numerous litters, she ranges across all of Rath.



Accept one favor from an ouphe, and you're doomed to accept another.

"Faith is my shield, and hope is my armor; I am vulnerable only to myself."
—Asmira, Holy Avenger

"Where will you run when I punish you with the very ground you flee on?"
—Nicol Bolas
"Water remembers every living thing that has ever been a part of. We need only to bring that recollection to the surface."
"Where our potions and powders fail, perhaps nature will succeed."
—Reyhan, Samite Alchemist

A retreat to nature can inspire even the most jaded inventor.


The tale of her life was already written, but that didn't mean she could predict the ending.

There is no such thing as a regiment of ogres.
Sorin has gathered grudges for centuries, patiently awaiting the day he can exact the perfect vengeance.

The kith dance their elaborate reels not merely to celebrate the events of their lives but to form an unbreakable bond of loyalty with their kin, a bond stronger than the fear of death itself.
"We can take 'em. You go first!"

Sorin had created Avacyn, so it was a cruelty beyond imagining, a pain beyond description, that it fell upon him to end her forever.
While the smell of burning flesh is common in Grixis, the odor of smoldering brain matter is a rare treat.

They move in a synchronized swarm, turning entire squads into heaps of bloody rags and bones in an instant.
In the maze-like passages of the Erdwal, a wrong turn can be fatal.
Imagination's weight is memory's end.
"The nightstalkers are such a minor power in Urborg. Their sad eagerness to elevate themselves makes them willing tools in the plundering of little Femeref."
—Kaervek



Like a cross between a spider and a spyglass, but friendlier.
It eats death and drinks pain.
"They're not your friends; they despise you. I'm the only one you can count on. Trust me."
Even the clouds bend themselves to Memnarch's will, eager to swallow those who oppose him.
After the Battle of Liet Field, the white sun crested above Taj-Nar, bringing hope to all who survived the carnage.
"Halana and I have a bond that'll never be broken."
From the mists it rises, into the mists it retreats; through the mists it walks, fearless and unseen.

"Any more giant metal monsters want to try their luck? I'm just getting warmed up!"
Elves believe the hydra-god Progenitus sleeps beneath Naya, feeding on forgotten magics.
An elder in one pride, of the Sigiled caste in another.
"Not even death can catch me now!"

"About, about in reel and rout The death-fires danced at night; The water, like a witch's oils, Burnt green, and blue and white." —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
Two times the size, four times the smell.



Countless delights drift on the surface while dark schemes run below.

"This fight belongs to us all."
Most trudges are covered with decaying plant matter, making them ideal breeding grounds for fungal spores.
"Break one in half and you'll get a decent—if gooey—pair of weapons."
—Centaur warrior
Amonkhet's desiccated land thirsts for blood.

"Can we get this ghost 11% spookier?"

"We are kinfolk," explained Karn to the sliver queen. "Just as you need your progeny to complete you, so do I need the pieces of the Legacy to make me whole."
The Boros banner stands tall even if its bearer doesn't.
As the chapel was dragged under, the bell in the tower rang until the murky depths forever silenced its toll.
Linger on death's door and risk being invited in.
"Under the suns, Mirrodin kneels and begs us for perfection."
—Geth, Lord of the Vault

Victory favors neither the righteous nor the wicked. It favors the prepared.

"Let my hope be your shield."
"I've seen fog so thick you could cut it, but none that could cut me."
—Tahngarth of the *Weatherlight*

"The mountain's ducts will be like organ pipes, amplifying the glorious roar of the dying."
—Stronghold architect, journal

"There's more where that came from!"
"Even as we mourn the last, we look to the next with joy. Hopefully, my new suitor will bring the Cauldron home."
—Ayara, First of Locthwain
"When you cannot rely on your sources, trust your own senses. When you cannot trust those, you must follow your instincts."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain


"This world was once so much more than the confines of Naktamun."
"The sword or the lash. Choose."
—Akul, Keldon whip sergeant
Long ago, birds of paradise littered the skies. Thanks to the city's sprawl, most now exist as pets of society's elite.
They knock 'em dead, with or without the punch line.
A symbol of conviction in uncertain times.
When the forests became havens for evil, the archmages devised new ways to cleanse the wilds.






Designed by Rob Pardo
He's the unlife of the party.

"We define the boundaries of reality; they don't define us."
—Teferi


Astride the bucking creature, Gribble hurtled down the mountainside while his Grotag brethren cheered. It was at that moment that the legend of the Skrill Tamer was born.



A true follower of Tourach took pride in achievement to the exclusion of other concerns.
Blood seeks blood, and nothing shall hold back its hunger.

An emblem of a secret guild, the Dimir insignia is seen only by its own members—and the doomed.

The last piece was finally in place.
As malleable as molten steel, but as dangerous as the finished blade.

The mind is a beautiful bounty encased in an annoying bone container.
Frozen by conscience, Karn did not resist as the moggs carried him to the Predator.


"My dreams have brought more visions from our master: an altar, exquisite and perfect. We must build it at once."
—Writings of Artonac, priest of Gix
"Let me introduce you to Rocky."

"Wars are decided one life at a time."
—Gvar Barzeel, Kolaghan warrior
"Take care what you offer the ignus. Food, perhaps. Coins. But nothing flammable!"
—Stovic, village eccentric



"Believe in the ideal, not the idol."
—Serra
He has journeyed where none have been before. Now he returns to ensure that none follow.




These stealthy felines have survived so many battles that some believe they must possess many lives.

Dromoka's followers forsake blood ties so that they may join a greater family.


The very young and the very old know best the song the angels sing.






There was no reason to pray. This was already an act of the gods.
Urza's metathran children were conceived, birthed, and nurtured by an integrated system of machines.


Automated systems at the Tolarian Academy sort new acquisitions for optimal use, determining which should be studied, eaten, or sold.

Kongming and Lu Su tricked Wei troops into shooting over 100,000 arrows at them to later use against the Wei at Red Cliffs.




As its parched flesh withers away, its malignant hunger grows.
A power vacuum for the Azorius. A keepsake for Vraska.

The void is without substance but cuts like steel.

The angel remembers her past lives like dreams. Her song held up meadows. Her blade drove back darkness. Her wings carried her across the ages.

"The sun shines bright upon the strong."
"Even this primitive specimen of my kind is impressive."
—Niv-Mizzet
"I've seen corpses prettier than you, beastmage."
—Liliana Vess
"Every thought is a star illuminating the darkness. Inspiration comes from finding the constellations that link them."


They never miss a funeral.

Urza was the first to understand that the war would not be lost for lack of power, but for lack of troops.

Vulshok shamans could never keep them alive for more than a few seconds, yet those few seconds seemed to be enough.



"All questions will be answered during the Hour of Revelation."
"Sometimes it is better to be swift of foot than strong of swordarm."
—Elven proverb

"If it bears wings, I will pin it to the skies over Tefemburu."
—Roya, Zhalfirin archer
It was a moment in time, cast in stone—a moment whose time had come again.
Untouched by the Aurora, Oona's faeries greeted the night like any other day.
A lifetime of keeping up appearances is not enough to earn an eternity of rest.

Its wings were only designed to be ornamental, but it learned to use them on its own.
Three sharp barks announce an attempt to escape the Underworld. Three sharp bites end it.
"Before the war, we prayed to Kataki to sharpen our swords and harden our armor. Without his blessing our weapons are all but useless against the kami hordes."
—Kenzo the Hardhearted



To be counted among the warriors of Setessa's Leina Tower, you must not fear death, only failure.
From deep in the caves beneath the forest, the hierophants planned the druids' raids against the enemy.





"Looks like that wasn't darksteel after all."
—Koth of the Hammer

"Healing is a gift the divine ones have shared with us. It is a sacred trust."
Treefolk and elves share a common interest in the forests, but really the elves just feel at home with the view from above.

"Try to pretend like you understand what's important."
"Trade my moose? Sure—when I find a *horse* that can spear ten goblins at a time!"


"The so-called barbarians will not respect us for our military might—they will respect us for our honor."
—Lucilde Fiksdotter, leader of the Order of the White Shield

"The battle is won. There's work to be done. / The Blessed Sleep must wait. / A fiend is about. It stalks the devout. / I'll save them from my fate."
—"The Good Geist's Vow"
"My 'condition' is a trial. The weak are consumed by it. The strong transcend it."
—Sorin Markov
"Class is in season."
"Big one I, One big eye. One-eye see Two-eye die!"
—Traditional cyclops chant
The turning of the tide always begins with one soldier's decision to head back into the fray.
Her resentment vanished as strange, unknown lands opened up before her.
Sacred rites repurposed to fight an ancient threat.
"You must pay for your sin in blood."





"The explorer who found it got a bad deal when he sold it. He merely got rich."






When civilization encroaches on nature, Zendikar encroaches back.
The soul sheds light, and death is its shadow. When the light dims, life and death embrace.
—Nantuko teaching



He marks his territory with fire and wrath, etching the mountainside with his charring breath.

"Booga booga booga!"
Anything sent into a plagued world is bound to come back infected.


Cast the weight as though it were a die, to see a rival's fate.
The knights of Troinir Keep took the rhino as their emblem due to its intense focus when charging down a perceived threat—a trait they discovered on a hunting excursion.

"I do not care if he claims no allegiance in this war. Find him, Takeno."
—Lord Konda

Weighing in at a combined thirteen thousand pounds and two ounces.
Its laughter drives needles through your mind.
"There's always room for improvement."

"Barrin taught me that the hardest lessons to grasp are the ones you've already learned."
—Ertai, wizard adept
Investigators observed that Altonio's beloved fish were thriving after his disappearance.



Made of bone and boiled in blood, a Rakdos signet is not considered finished until it has been used as a murder weapon.


"Nothing against you. It's just that waiting for Consulate clearance was never really my thing."
The Champion and her companions marched through the night, but the battle was over before they arrived. In the middle of the carnage sat a solitary minotaur, lost in what seemed to the Champion to be thought.
—*The Theriad*




"The specimen seems to be broken."










"I always attack from where their spyglasses can't see."


"Skyknight gear? Well, I have drake-skin gauntlets, supple and fireproof. Or a ceratok chestplate that'll stop a crossbow bolt."

"I do love the rain . . . but this storm feels somehow wrong, Taysir."
—Daria
The dark opening seemed to breathe the cold, damp air of the dead earth in a steady rhythm.



The Selesnya welcome all to help them heal the city's wounds. The price, however, is devotion to the guild and a selfless belief in Trostani.

When you rule by fear, your greatest weakness is one who's no longer afraid.



"This sliver comes into the world a perfect predator. It's ready to hunt and devour its first meal within seconds of hatching."
—Rukarumel, field journal
Terms like "safe route" and "cleared district" are a source of dark humor to the cathars who patrol the ruins of Thraben.
"Quandrix is running out of time. If they're going to capture the Witherbloom mascot, they need something big here."
—Cremik, Mage Tower commentator
Unlike most churches, at Orzhova it's best to pray before you arrive.
During the dark times, the rats seemed to grow ever stronger.


"Hold on to your lunch!"
—Bartleby, gnome wizard

The mere approach of an Abzan war beast is enough to send enemies fleeing in panic.
"Oh, I had a conscience once. But alas, I seem to have forgotten where I put it."
—Chandler
"Words lie. People lie. The land tells the truth."
For the Simic Combine, its sigil serves not as an emblem of honor but as a trademark. Its familiar image on any biological commodity attests to superb craftsmanship, ingenious innovation, and higher cost.
Its fiery paws make it easy to track, which is very useful when you want to go in exactly the opposite direction.
Can you do the can-can-can-can?

"Some relic hunters have given up exploring and gone to fight the Eldrazi. But I know our work is more important than ever. The secrets we uncover could lead to the world's salvation."


Lucy had chased every ball, chewed every stick, and rolled in every puddle. She lay down in the sun, content at last.
Every grave cradles a recruit.

Discipline is the first pillar of the Jeskai Way. Each member of the clan trains in a weapon, perfecting its use over a lifetime.
"I refuse to die before I see the sun rise again."


As Glissa searches for the truth about Memnarch, Bosh searches to unearth the secrets of his past.
The lamps on Wyndmoor Street snuff themselves at midnight and refuse to relight, afraid to illuminate what lies in the darkness.
"Leaves more room for the big ones to fight in, you know."
—Jaya Ballard, task mage


When it passes, waves touch the sky.
The spite of the Cabal turns meadow into mire.

"Old turf. Powerful turf. Much good blood spilled here."
—Ruric Thar

Although Cryptwitch Merree vanished after a spat with Rakdos, her playthings lingered.





Whoever survives the first blow lives to land the second.


Tel-Jilad's sworn protectors are the trolls, yet more fearsome protectors were created by the Tangle itself.
"When it comes to killing with precision, a soul is but a hindrance."
—Isareth the Awakener


Even vampires know to travel faster when they hear howling in the Geier Reach passes.
When the gods go to war, mortals pay the highest price.
"Our bodies may lie slain, but perhaps we can still complete the ritual. I'd rather not spend my afterlife in this wretched eternal night."
In preparation to grow new heads, a hydra may rid itself of older ones.



Enter those who are starving and sick. You are welcome among the Swarm when the rest of Ravnica rejects you.

"If powerstones are energy stored in material form, could we store matter as energy the same way?"
—Rayne, research notes
After fear and weakness rot away, that which remains is stronger than its living form.





"Understanding is not a virtue of the ogre. Do not seek to reason your way into Shinka Keep."
—Kiku, Night's Flower

"Were they to reduce us to ash, we would clog their throats and sting their eyes in payment."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain






Where high society and dark opportunity intersect.




The murdered inhabitants of Hollowhenge impart to the living the terror they felt in death.

Before a raid, the members of Wort's gang egg each other on with tales of their hunger and what they'll do to sate it, each outdoing the last.
"Beauty to the eye does not always translate to the touch."
—Naimah, Femeref philosopher
"Some aspire to climb the mountain of Honor. The Benalish are born upon its peak, and from there ascend among the stars."
—*History of Benalia*
It could subsist on seeds but its preferred fare is your face.

Our lawyers say no matter how funny it would be, we can't encourage players to eat the cards. Hear that? Whatever you do, *don't* eat the delicious cards.


To save this plane, he must forsake all others.

A skeletal wall, strengthened by the souls of traitors, rings the city of the Eastern Paladin.




"This is going to hurt a lot, but on the bright side, you'll be dead soon."
—Sedris, the Traitor King
He can stir the gentlest spirit to wild ferocity.




"The land promises nothing and keeps its promise."
—Oracle *en*-Vec
"It might just be my greatest invention yet: A lovable pet that *decreases* the need for chores!"
—Jan Jansen





"There is only one way of life in Jund: feed on the weak until you are cut down by something stronger."
—Jorshu of Clan Nel Toth
"The angels may have abandoned us, but Ghrin-Danu has not."


"You don't survive in the wild by standing in plain sight."
—Garruk Wildspeaker



"If you threaten its territory, it produces spores. Actually, no matter what you do, it produces spores."
@-Hadi Kasten, Calla Dale naturalist


"We sail. We plunder. Then we dance."
Gerrard knew little of Ramos, the sky god they worshiped. But he felt the power of the chant.
"He [Guan Yu] covered the ground on a thousand-*li* horse; / With dragon blade he took each pass by force."

A pirate ship in battle is a storm of activity.


"No matter how much a plane has suffered, there is a way to restore it."
—Nissa Revane




Battle doesn't need a purpose; the battle is its own purpose. You don't ask why a plague spreads or a field burns. Don't ask why I fight.
"But no one heard the snake's gentle hiss for peace over the elephant's trumpeting of war."
—Afari, *Tales*


"Chandra's Pyromastery Gloves are not fire resistant."
—Costume warning label


Flumphs siphon thoughts and energy from evil aberrations, and are often eager to share the dark knowledge they obtain with friendly adventurers.

As it twists, so does all life around it.
Theros's human philosophers were at a marked disadvantage due to their need to pause for things like food or sleep.
"You pray to Freyalise, but she cannot hear your pleas. It is Tevesh Szat who will claim your soul."



There is no fondness between the hound and its master. There is only a common appreciation of the hunt.
"I saw them once, when I was a child. They led me to my parents' arms when I was lost. Why have they abandoned me now? Why won't they take me home again?"
—Unnamed beggar

When these apes want something, it's a matter of gibbon take.
"At heart, Urza was an inventor, not a warlord. Over time, the burdens of leadership left him as cold and calculating as his mechanical creations."
—*The Antiquities War*
They watch for a new master, one more sinister than the last.





Kill a gnarlid with your first blow, or it'll cheerfully show you how it's done.
"Sure, they're worth a lot, but I'd rather survive to spend my earnings."
—Mokgar, Kalonian hunter
An ancient nemesis rendered harmless long ago.


"Today's paperweight, tomorrow's leveler."
—Bruenna, Neurok leader






"When you see a raven, head for the hills. It knows when the ghost-tide is headed in."
—Sved, fisherman of Nephalia

". . . Before honor is humility."
—*The Bible*, Proverbs 15:33

Goblins don't know much about physics, but they know lots about falling and rocks.



In Akros, the penalty for running from battle is one night's stay in the Deserter's Quarters.
Bring the spear of ancient briar; Bring the torch to light the pyre. Bring the one who trod our ground; Bring the spade to dig his mound.
"The beholder told me I had a good eye for details. Who was I to argue?"


He who hesitates is lunch.
Every tear shed is a drop of immortality.
"Leviathan, too! Can you catch him with a fish-hook or run a line round his tongue?"
—*The Bible*, Job 41:1
"Center of the Sea, Eye of the World, Shrine of Enlightenment. Seek it for answers. Seek it for healing. Seek it and return transformed."
—Scroll fragment from the ruins of Minamo

For rule of the Aldering Forest, Numstail stole the acorn from Nestwind, who stole it from Brankie, who stole it from Lightroot, who stole it from Leafpaw, who stole it from Darkfur . . .

"Don't worry everyone—I hear hoofbeats! The Gavony Riders are coming to save us!"
—Adin, Moorland villager
Knights get the glory. Soldiers get things done.
Knights who excel in tournaments sometimes underestimate threats beyond the realm.
It's there when a seed sprouts, when gourds ripen on the vines, and when the reapers cut the grains under the Harvest Moon.
"Your own frailty is your undoing. I am merely the one to expose it."




"I can hear the plunder calling. It asks for me by name."
"The only question we need to ask is how best to fulfill the will of the God-Pharaoh."
"How do you stop a raptor from charging? No, seriously! Help!"
—Blarg, goblin jester
"If our former masters would have us kneel again, they shall feel our defiance slashed across their membranes."


These are its last days. Better to grow broad and heavy. Better that the enemy is crushed beneath its carcass.

"Let the world behold what becomes of those who defy us."
—Taigam, Sidisi's Hand
Takenuma was filled with a chorus of moans, shrieks, and wails. Some came from the living, some from the dying, and some, most horribly, from the dead.
No circle has a beginning, but many have foreseeable ends.
She was winning the Dominarian "Are You Hot?" competition until disaster struck during the wet T-shirt round.


I heard their eerie howling, the wolves calling their kindred across the frozen plains.
"To arms! To arms! The Lion roars!"



"Ah, this is a nice life. I can see why you were so desperate to keep it."

I didn't think Mammoths could ever hold a candle to a well-trained battle horse. Then one day I turned my back on a drunken soldier. His blow never landed; Mi'cha flung the brute over ten meters.
No one knows whether they were named for the disease they carry or for the speed at which they multiply.
"The clamor of the city drowns all voices. But together we can sing a harmony that will resonate from Ravnica's tallest spires to her deepest wells."

"For the lands you have lost and the beauty that remains, for freedom and the future, we must hold nothing back!"
—Gideon Jura

"Your father was a dear friend to whom I owe much. He wanted me to look after you, to care for you should something happen to him."
"Wherever the strong would harm the weak, I will be there."
—Ajani Goldmane
Where nature impedes, Phyrexians overcome.
"Phyrexia is an unforgiving place, and I am an angry lord in an unforgiving mood."
—Lord Windgrace



"The key to bonding with monsters, no matter their size, is knowing where they like to be scratched."
The continent of Murasa lies beneath a blanket of dense vegetation, its enormous branches tangled so thickly that some inhabitants never see the ground.

"Wherever I walk, the ancestors walk too."
"Filthy, sticky, vile, noxious—and I haven't even started describing the webs."
—Erinis, gloom stalker
Bant mages still call to the heavens for aid, but angels are not the only ones who answer.
"I am bound to all my children. I share in their joys, I rage at their injuries."


Elspeth feared that her trespass into Nyx would not go unanswered.
"We do not believe in hiding our wealth in the shadows. This is Orzhov, and this is how we reward greatness."
—Teysa Karlov, Grand Envoy of Orzhov
The renegades mounted an aether disruptor aboard a lightweight thopter to destroy Tezzeret's Planar Bridge.
"Is it true that the apes wear furs of gold when they marry?"
—Rana, Suq'Ata market fool


"I have seen it. Seen the end, seen the beginning, the beginning of the end. Not death, no, no. Transcendence!"

"This big metal guy will make some amazing wind chimes!"
In the final days before the disaster, all the crabs on Tolaria migrated from inlets, streams, and ponds back to the sea. No one took note.
She remembers every word spoken, from the hero's oath to the baby's cry.
No heartbeat to hear, no greed to bribe, no fear of death.
"I've got a special treat for you today."



Never flinch. Never falter. Never fear.

"See how gratefully this world accepts our blessings."
—Jin-Gitaxias, Core Augur
Looking over two city blocks of destruction, he could only cackle with pride.
Riders chase the fading light recklessly through the mountains, desperate for one last glimpse of day.
The Broken Lands are littered with the remnants of civilizations long dead and infested by terrors very much alive.


Deception and misdirection are the heart of the pirate's arsenal.
Some angels protect the meek and innocent. Others seek out and smite evil wherever it lurks.
Once, Nissa selected worthy fighters to defend the Joraga. Now, she gathers forces to defend all of Zendikar.

"For what are leaves but countless blades To fight a countless foe on high."
—Elvish hymn

"Impressive."
—Chandra Nalaar
The climax of a warlord's career is always death.

"The lasting effects are invariably fatal."
—Phyrexian progress notes
They'll attack whatever's in front of them—as long as you tell them where that is.
Dying is a soldier's talent.
When its power is threatened, the council speaks with a unified voice.

In an attempt to restore pride to Shiv and to forge an undying legacy, Rorix traveled far to compete for glory in Otaria's Grand Coliseum.


"Now the scaled ones rule Tarkir."

A loyal crew sticks together, even after death.


Her angry call split the sky. From that rift descended her champions.


"Time enough to become a Medic once you're hurt too badly to fight. For now, Icatia needs your strength more than your compassion."
—Lydia Wynforth, Mayor of Trokair

The hedrons awoke along with the Eldrazi, forming superstructures that radiated overwhelming magic.
"Drive them back! Make their underworld into their grave!"
—Koth of the Hammer


"Arcum is a babbling fool! Phyrexian technology is our greatest blessing. Take this delightful trinket for instance . . ."
@-Heidar, Rimewind master

Those who earn a glorious death are given the highest honor. They are carried on funeral barges through the gate to the afterlife.

Only rumors have ever escaped its web.





"I bring a dawn that no night can follow."


Behind every mage is a trail of shattered lies.

The Izzet love replicating results.



Things buried on Innistrad rarely seem to stay that way.
"Another village, another angry mob. Why do I even bother unpacking?"
The cold slowed their movements until only their panicked eyeballs swiveled beneath the ice.
To protect the alliance between Kjeldor and Yavimaya, they trained in the ways of both.

"An angel appeared in the smoldering skies above the fray, her clothes as flames, her armor as fire."
—"Hymn of Angelfire"
The winds of change have a mind of their own.
Far from the trappings of royalty, Rowan and Will found inspiration from the most popular sport on campus, Mage Tower.


"A splendid talent, admired of all men! His folly lay in serving Cao Cao's power."
Every kill is a sacrament of the Emperor's glory.
"There's only one route from Kessig into Stensia. Unless you come with me."





A master of tactics, the Lord of Atlantis makes his people bold in battle merely by arriving to lead them.
Ever since the disaster, the city's survivors viewed the star-strewn sky with dread.
"The union of sea and sky makes a perfect cover."
—Talrand, sky summoner



None can tell how many vessels are tangled up on the sea floor—or how much treasure remains unclaimed.

2015 Legacy Championship Winner
Ojutai spends time at all his strongholds, but he most favors Cori Stronghold for his meditation.
The Minotaurs of the Hurloon Mountains are known for their love of battle. They are also known for their hymns to the dead, sung for friend and foe alike. These hymns can last for days, filling the mountain valleys with their low, haunting sounds.
"My life is yours, my lord. There is no greater service than to yield it for your safety."
One day, it might provide a flash of insight that turns the tide of battle. Meanwhile, it looks lovely on an end table.

"Perhaps drawing the impossible monster will lessen the burden my memory must bear."
—Jarsyl, diary

Despite their many forms, the Eternals worked in chilling harmony, unburdened by instinct or emotion.





"Take what solace you can in the knowledge that you will not be here to witness Zendikar's demise."
—Ob Nixilis

Why settle for mere enormity?

"Death is no excuse for disobedience."
—Liliana Vess
Fouler than a necromancer's kiss.
—Jamuraan expression


As you gaze down upon Wyrm's Crossing, you hear distant cries of alarm, and you notice that all traffic on the bridge has come to a halt.

"We've endured your slights to Gaea with the grace of tolerance. Now behold the grace of our ferocity."
Textiles at the Inventors' Fair feature threads from every corner of Kaladesh.

Soothing whispers invite travelers to step closer, closer, closer . . . until they vanish soundlessly beneath the surface.
"A basilisk's gaze is effective, but disposing of physical remains is a tiresome task. It's far more discreet to dissolve one's victim entirely."
—Szadek
Us hungry, need food . . . . Lots of books . . . . Hmm . . . .
Urza always put Tocasia's lessons on resource-gathering to effective use.





No foe is more hated than the former friend.
"A true Phyrexian predator. It will never know death, just as nature intended."
—Vorinclex, Voice of Hunger



"Remember, brother, the eyes are always vulnerable."
"I never forgot."

"Organization is often undervalued but rarely unjustified."
—Frasio, royal archivist




A force as voracious as time itself.


"The dead know their place."

"If you live on a giant's back, there's only one individual you'll ever need to fear."
—Gaddock Teeg


Dragonslayers learned to keep silent about their deeds after seeing the terrible vengeance wrought by Kolaghan and her brood.



About halfway to the target, Snukk vowed that he had been tricked for the last time.

"What's the fun of being a wizard if you can't mess with people's heads?"

It's said the spirits of the drowned dead hang their lights from the shattered figureheads.
"From down here we can make the whole wall collapse!"
"Uh, yeah, boss, but how do we get out?"


Few take kindly to being put in their place, especially if their place is the grave.

Faith is a cathar's greatest weapon, but a sword of blessed silver is a close second.
"We meet again, pyromancer."
—Baral, Chief of Compliance




There is always a greater power.
Golgari reclaimers resent the gorgons, begrudging the loss of so many fine nutrients locked away in stone.

For every tree who falls, there are countless sprouts waiting to rise.
An explorer's reward is a view of tomorrow's possibilities.

"You brought this upon yourself, Sorin!"



"United, our roar will level mountains."




String, weapons, wax, or jewels—it makes no difference. Leave nothing unguarded in Scarwood.


"Don't make splashes. Make progress."
—Tishana
Some shamanic sects advocate the different seasons, each working to preserve nature's cycles.
Some cathars succumbed to despair at Avacyn's unmaking. The rest redoubled their efforts to carry out her work.
You can never have too many arms.
Before a cause can have supporters, it has to have a voice.

"Here fell Ishi-Ishi, King of the Flaming Pebbles, Scourge of the Mountain Kami, Lover of Goats. May his shell never burn."
—Cave inscription


Dominaria's most ancient evil.

"The invaders cloak themselves in the shadows of dusk. Aerosaurs hide in the brilliance of the noonday sun."
—Caparocti Sunborn
"If your mech is factory standard, you might as well be walking."


"Even rats hoard their treasures. Are your precious things so different?"
—Izoni
"It was vast, a great sheet of soaring wings, and equally silent. It caught us unawares and blocked our view of the kithkin stronghold."
—Grensch, merrow cutthroat
For safety reasons, the keeping of houseplants within Ikoria's sanctuaries is heavily discouraged.

The choices of the living will tether them in death.


Rootwater merfolk are seldom seen these days, but elf corpses are as numerous as ever.
"Course he ran! *I* wouldn't want to stare down that barrel, either!"
—Alaborn soldier


Its slime liquefies the ground as efficiently as its fangs shred prey.

The relic's purpose? Its design? Whatever the intent, it is now a mere curiosity that breaks up the horizon.
Jund's thallids tried to disguise their deliciousness by covering themselves in spines harvested from the tukatongue tree.

As silent as a shadow, and just as hard to flee.
It has witnessed history's most significant events, one incarnation after another.



"Then the ancient masters themselves, towers of rapacity, rose and began their calamitous feast."
—*The Invokers' Tales*




It eats what it wants to eat—which is anything that moves.
"I used to hurl rocks and eat scraps of meat burned over a fire. Look at what I've become and tell me Simic does not hold infinite possibility."
Now that you've clearly hit the "marsh" part of Lizard Marsh, you begin to worry about the "lizard" part.
"They wouldn't sell their own families—at least, not for cheap."
—Zeki, Reef Pirate


"It has been my experience that soldiers most fervently follow generals who lead by example."
—Elspeth
"The fires of invention burn in all of us. I fight for the freedom to unleash those flames."
—Pia Nalaar


A grave is the safest place to store ill-gotten treasures.




Honorable in battle, generous in death.
—Motto of the Kjeldoran Royal Guard
"Forget. Only then will there be space for hope between the pain and fear."
"I could see in the other mage's eyes that he'd thought of it too. Then it became a race to exploit the knowledge first."


Choices are rarely as simple as they seem.


"Get out of my way."

The Underworld erodes memory, identity, and eventually the physical form, leaving only crumbling statues called misera—hollow monuments to mortal futility.

"The shadow travels toward the apex. I predict we will soon see the true measure of darkness."
The Astrotorium bouncing record is three days, though setting it wasn't strictly intentional.
"The bog doesn't give a stinking bubble about your title, wealth, or piety. It's just hungry."
—Byaras, backwoods guide
Every litter of kavu yields one cub that refuses to hunt with the pack.
"Those who endure in the face of suffering, those whose faith shines long in evil days, they shall see salvation."
—*Song of All*, canto 904


Man versus nature is not a fair fight.
Frog is the sincerest form of flattery.



Out of the blackness and stench of the engulfing swamp emerged a shimmering figure. Only the splattered armor and ichor-stained sword hinted at the unfathomable evil the knight had just laid waste.

It beckons silently, waiting in the darkness.


He digs his roots into barren ground, searching for old seeds that never had the chance to sprout.


It doesn't hold grudges. It runs them down and impales them.

"I have calculated that a dragon in flight, in a single strafing run, can cover an area of—"
—Thaedus the Clever, last words
"Verdant bloom does exist. It merely hides for its own safety."
"Knowledge is a feast for the mind. Savor every swallow."


"If you wish for blessings, mortal, ask your demon masters. We've given enough to your kind."

"We've managed to keep the goblins in their assigned areas, but there's little we can do about the smell."
—Whip Tongue, viashino technician
It hears and answers every orison across Shadowmoor.
The Abzan turn to this spell only as a last resort, for its inevitable result is what they most dread: to be alone.
The bigger they are, the harder they avoid work.
His favorite food is kraul.
"It's not hard to grasp that this land does not belong to us."
—Gavi, nest warden
Few know her face, but everyone knows her work.




The *Weatherlight* dragged the *Predator* behind it, the cradle hauling the casket.




"By accepting my smallness I am vast."
The Scrappers, an underground group with a passion for automaton brawls, had renegade leanings even before the Consulate's crackdown. It didn't take long for them to lend their best brawlers to the conflict.
"I have exactly what you need. The question is, how badly do you need it?"
He hunts what might have been.
When you've got nothing, you might as well trade it for something else.
"To sculpt a mind is to see every memory and thought as an individual piece that can be rearranged—or removed."
—Jace Beleren




Niv-Mizzet had perfected a plan, but he had no control over the mortal minds who had to agree to implement it.

The Scuzzback gang scavenges rusty armor covered in barbed protrusions. No threat is more effective than the threat of infection.
Clairvoyants across Dominaria were driven mad by the overload from the widening time rifts, while other random folk gained the gift of future sight.
Deep in the heart of Urborg lie massive volcanoes whose thick black smoke covers the land with perpetual darkness.

The most dangerous place to be in Kessig is alone.



For the Phyrexians, death is not an end, nor a one-time occurrence.

The feet have no eyes.
—Saprazzan saying
Vela snuffs out every trace of Krond's reign, leaving pure nightfall in her wake.


The flame of anger is hard to douse once lit.

Finding themselves in a new and unexplored world, they immediately set it on fire.
Stripped of their divinity, the elves of Skemfar channeled their rage and sorrow into bloody brutality.



Like blinking or breathing, responding to an alarm is an involuntary reflex.

Not all elves embrace the pastoral life. Some still roam the forest's edge, forever making war against their hated enemies.
The only thing it likes more than discovering a pit of bones is adding to it.
"Peace will come only when we have taken Varchild's head."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain

Just when you thought you'd be safe, in the middle of an open field with no Eldrazi around for miles.





"These estimates are conservative. Its true capacity may be far, far greater."
—Research notes, signature illegible

"Hup, two, three, four,
Dunno how to count no more."


The rift remained open for days, sluicing ancient seawater. It closed only after the last great tentacle squirmed its way through.
Kaysa speaks as the elder druid, but Yavimaya recognizes only one voice: its own.
One way or another, everyone gets paid what they're owed.
Strengthened by a thousand limbs.

"Is it hopeless? When wave upon wave of our dead return as mindless flesh-eaters to claw upon Thraben's walls? We're too busy cutting them down to indulge ourselves in such philosophical foppery."
—Mikaeus, the Lunarch
"This is a new world and a new war. We need warriors who know chaos and how to combat it."
—Lisha of the Azure
She endures without Avacyn but secretly asks each soul she guides if it has seen her.
"Now the scaled ones rule Tarkir."
Mages often seek to emulate the powerful relics lost to time and apocalypse.
"From in here, everything looks like dinner."

"If its skin looks like stone, it is only to match its heart."
—Crovax
Everybody knows that to ward off trouble, you knock on wood. But usually it's better to make a wall out of the wood and let trouble do the knocking.



"Boat's burning! Row faster!"
The fastest way across the dunes is above.
Centuries before the first blades of the Razor Fields chimed in the wind, Mirrodin echoed with the golems' footsteps.

The traps around the vampire city of Malakir hint at the thirst of its inhabitants.
The Wall of Bone is said to be an aspect of the Great Wall in Hel, where the bones of all sinners wait for Ragnarok, when Hela will call them forth for the final battle.
Masters of dimensional dissonance, singularity manipulation, and countless other technologies, plasmancers are terrifying to behold.
The oil sloshes against his skull as he nears his destination: the Frogtosser Games and the lighting of the Flaming Boggart.
"Run away! It's an . . . um . . . run away!"
—Nomad sentry
Unpredictable as the sea itself, Water Elementals shift without warning from tranquility to tempest. Capricious and fickle, they flow restlessly from one shape to another, expressing their moods with their physical forms.


"Your enemies may be cowardly, my lord, but one should never call them gutless."


Buyer beware.


"My shout is thunder and my fist is lightning!"


Armageddon has become a site of holy pilgrimage for the Orks: a planet where the fighting never stops.
Though many have come to this place to wash their wounds, the water has never turned red.


It sees itself in all of its creations.
You were on a wayward path until Bahamut showed you that power and kindness can unite beneath the same banner.


Honor the gods of Theros, and they will return the favor.
From here, the path to anywhere may be found.
Those who examine the amulet too closely have been known to become part of its ornate carvings.
As the fusillade of lasgun fire bounced harmlessly off the carnifex's carapace, the creature roared and advanced.

A banner for bonds of blood or belief.
"Nature is a wonderful engineer but works far too slowly for my tastes."




#sponsored
"The next model should be able to achieve a rescue without self-destruction."
—Sargis Haz, artificer

Chandra, Teferi, and Arlinn sought clues to the Moonsilver Key's whereabouts while Kaya dispatched the spirits obstructing their path.

Heida allowed herself a moment of satisfaction as she watched the beast fall, then turned to seek another foe. It would be a long, long night.


"A river of lava is just another river to cross."

The Vulshok use its digestion to break down the most obstinate artifacts, from darksteel myr to seastrider plates.
Though the Time of Ice has ended, its relics still slumber in New Argive.


"I believe many worlds will bow to Phyrexia. Mirrodin is merely the first."
—Sheoldred, Whispering One

The true treasure no thief can touch.







"Arcum is a babbling fool! Phyrexian technology is our greatest blessing. Take this delightful trinket for instance . . ."
—Heidar, Rimewind master
Closing time comes earlier to some than to others.


It provides what every discerning mage requires—time to think.
"Takara, it's me!" shouted Starke. It was no use—she obeyed Volrath.
"Oops!"
—Grupgrup, sluiceway technician
The emotional echoes of dryad gatherings attract lost souls.
"It reflects the purity of Mirrodin-that-was."
—Koth of the Hammer
Haunting cries we hear in our dreams As the forest dies, a death from machines.



Some Krovikans find strength in the ears and eyes of their victims and wear such fetishes into battle.

"We attacked with arrows dipped in poison. The slivers that did not die began to change."
—Hastric, Thunian scout

A blisterpod's corpse is a scion's cradle.
"Your veil's curse won't stop me, deathmage. I have taken down countless night hunters and this dark plane is not big enough for you to hide."
—Garruk Wildspeaker, to Liliana Vess






"What's worse than being alone on the moors at night? Try *not* being alone."
—Nadila Maas, moor chaplain
"Your life will set with the sun."
Water calls to water, and the world is left exhausted and withered in its wake.


The head of the staff doubles as a brand to anoint the newly inducted.





Purphoros's blessing: sometimes a boon, sometimes a bane. Always ablaze.

Amonkhet's dual suns don't allow for the darkness of night, so bats are most active under the gloom of the frequent sandstorms.
"The land grows only where the kami will it."
—Dosan the Falling Leaf
Masters of the arcane savor a delicious irony. Their study of deep and complex arcana leads to such a simple end: the ability to say merely yes or no.


"They groaned, they stirred, they all uprose,/ Nor spake, nor moved their eyes;/ It had been strange, even in a dream,/ To have seen those dead men rise."/ —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
Dragon birth lairs are littered with treasure to entice the young from their eggs.


After lightning struck the cliffs, the ore became iron, the iron became steel, and the steel became greaves. The lightning never left.



Only those who have proved themselves worthy are granted a dragon's scale.


He ensures escape attempts are just that—attempts.
Honor the gods of Theros, and they will return the favor.

Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.
Deep within the Cabal's vault, the Mirari pulsed like a dead sun-and its darkness radiated across Otaria.
"Get up, slugabeds! We've got company, and they're not dressed for a party!"
The artificers of Kaladesh strive ceaselessly for perfection, progress, and the ultimate expression of elegance.
Like a living organism, Zendikar rids itself of infection, and it does so abruptly and ruthlessly.
The shield of unimpeachable purity is as strong as any wrought on the anvil.
"Who needs the sun when you've got me around?"
—Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
Moving without sound, swift figures pass through branches and undergrowth completely unhindered. One with the trees around them, the Dryads of Shanodin Forest are seen only when they wish to be.


"Go ahead, build another. I'll burn that down as well."
"The most harmonious designs are based on relationships found in nature."
—Venand Kapur, the Gearherder
He rose from the graf for every cobbler, tanner, and fool who'd been slaughtered in the parish—and they rose and shambled after him.
"Industry without artistry is just a fancy way to fill the junkyard."
"So even the heart of our world has succumbed."
—Koth of the Hammer
Freshly promoted to "first rock," Zaz was eager to make an impact.
When the vaults are empty, everyone is rich.
At his behest the Kami War began to regain That Which Was Taken.

Once she sang sailors to their doom. Now she leads them to glory.
"Her people angered Zendikar, and they faced the land's wrath. That is why Nissa is the last of the animists."
—Numa, Joraga chieftain
"Crackle" and "pop" are the most wondrous sounds.



"Some of the other guys dared me to touch it, but I knew it weren't no ordinary hunk o' rock."
—Norin the Wary

Hope and courage bloom in her wake.
"To fill your mind with knowledge, we must start by emptying it."
—Barrin, master wizard
"My children will rule over all!"
"Though Serra has not been seen for twenty years, her gargoyles still watch over our city and punish the guilty."
—Gulsen, abbey matron


"When you have been bitten with fangs of granite, you start to long for the ivory sabers of tigers."
—Norin the Wary

"The best way to teach is by example."
"I trust what I make for myself. Do you trust more what is made for you by another?"

"When we fail to see the beauty in every tree, we are no better than humans."
—Saelia, elvish scout
"You claim wisdom, yet I see nothing in here but tawdry wishes."
The Battle of Baal was the bloodiest and most costly in the entire noble history of the Sons of Sanguinius.
"It has been my honor to improve on the Thran's original design. Perhaps history will remember me in some small part for my work."
—Urza, in his apprenticeship
Every veteran adventurer will tell you to stick with your party, because the ones who split up aren't around to give advice.




Sounds of life beckon many a restless soul.

A dragon's scale can be carved into a mighty shield, provided you can procure a dragontooth to cut it.
Radiant's eyes flashed. "Go, then," the angel spat at Serra, "and leave this world to those who truly care."
An enigma as vexing as life itself.
The Aurora transformed Nibb and Gyik from mischief-makers into feral marauders. They still don't know much about tool safety.
The aven claim it feeds on thunder and rainbows.

Tracking it isn't the hard part.


"Little moth, fluttering bright, What luck will you bring tonight?"
—Benalish children's rhyme
When a snowdrift shows you its eyes, it's already too late.
"But it was a year of dearth. People were reduced to eating leaves of jujube trees. Corpses were seen everywhere in the countryside."
He calls upon both the currents in the sea and the current in the clouds.





Good bodyguards are hard to find, mainly because they don't live long.

"Don't quit now, we're almost done.
Then we'll build another one!"
The masks float downstream toward the Mirrorlake, where faces arise to wear them.



"Look beyond, to the vascular awareness that all life is a map to greater knowledge."
—Momir Vig, *Biomancy*, vol. I

One footstep among many is silent. One footstep alone is deafening.
If you breathe, she will fight you. If you breathe fire, she must fight you.
Underneath the cities of Esper are cycles of life unseen by those who feed them.
Made of bone and boiled in blood, a Rakdos signet is not considered finished until it has been used as a murder weapon.


Eons ago, the ur-dragon roared. Its descendants still carry the echo across the Multiverse.
The sky takes flight and the earth trembles.
"The Westfolk wept, and their tears wore winding rivers into the cheek of the world."
—Glem the Lonebard, "Origins of Kholon"
Torn from history. Torn from memory. Torn from reality.
Supplicants offer flesh and silver, flowers and blood. The altar takes what it will, eyes gleaming with unspoken promises.
The warriors she leads can rarely keep pace with her, and neither can the tales.

"They are useful, but there's little satisfaction in supplication that throws itself under your heel."
—Jozica, Orzhov enforcer

This space intentionally left blank.

His mission has become a grim pilgrimage, a tour of the Eldrazi-stricken outposts across Zendikar. But he marches on alone, stubborn as the daily dawn.
Speed and fire are always a deadly combination.

The youths of Rishada's marketplace are always ready for a quick footrace.

"Creation is no great feat. Anything you make, I can unmake in a heartbeat."
—Alexi, zephyr mage

It's a small step from revel to bloodbath.

The undead of Grixis are fueled by their hatred of the living.




As healers battled each plague, they learned more about the next.

A true reflection of nature: death fostering life.
"I reeled from the blow, and then suddenly, I knew exactly what to do. Within moments, victory was mine."
—Gustha Ebbasdotter,
Kjeldoran Royal Mage
"And the unclean spirits went out, and entered the swine; and the herd ran violently . . ." —Mark 5:13
The mage awakened the statue in hopes of learning the lost lore of her clan, but the statue was interested only in war.

Her eyes blaze with the strength of twenty shields. Every glance is a salvation.
Its collection is vast, yet each ship has a special place in its heart.


"May your day never match your expectations."
—Scriptus Fleen, flectomancer
"I could show you what's in the case, but it'd be the last thing you ever see."

"Magic's only part of it, my friend. Diet does the rest."
—Pashad ibn Asim, Suq'Ata trader


Water is life. Or perhaps it is just something to wash it down with.




"This fight belongs to us all."
Heartless killer in life, brainless killer in death.
"When I battled Ojutai, I realized my learning had only begun."
—Shu Yun, the Silent Tempest


"Play the song of he who delivered us. Play the song of Feroz."
—Onatah, Anaba Shaman


Battle doesn't need a purpose; the battle is its own purpose. You don't ask why a plague spreads or a field burns. Don't ask why I fight.
Many who cross Sorin's path come down with a sudden and fatal case of being-in-the-way-of-a-millennia-old-vampire.
"Retribution is best delivered by claws and rage, with both magnified."
—Ajani


The progeny of the Maelstrom shows no allegiance—and no mercy—to any of the five shards.

The wedding's lavish decorations paled in comparison to the opulence of its elite guests.

To bear the shield of the pariah is the highest honor a Boros can receive—and the last.
A weapon best suited for those with good aim and steady hands.
From the highest tiers of Dawn's Light Palace to the deepest shade of Wren's Run, the silver notes of the horn shimmer through the air, and all who hear it feel its pull.

"Careless, like a child with fire, so was I with time."
—Teferi
Flesh can be tempered by spellcraft and forged ever stronger by the hammers of foes.
"A river of lava is just another river to cross."

Beyond pain, beyond obsession and wild despair, there lies a place of twisted power only the most tormented souls can reach.

Daru soldiers learned it's better to have a clean death from a sharp blade than to tangle with a goblin's rusted chains.



His enemies wondered if the lich king's brutal death and unnatural rebirth had been his plan all along.

Once a fierce foe, she would become one of Madara's greatest protectors.
A weapon forged for every hand.

"The light of beauty protects our journeys through darkness."





"Last time, it tore up the Wilt-Leaf, turned Mistmeadow into a mudhole, and made the river jump its banks. On the bright side, we were eating venison for weeks."
—Donal Alloway, cenn of Kinscaer
"If you threaten its territory, it produces spores. Actually, no matter what you do, it produces spores."
—Hadi Kasten, Calla Dale naturalist
"Dragons seek war. I bring it to them."


"So even the heart of our world has succumbed."
—Koth of the Hammer
The Ozolith's appearance spawned a new era of wild mutation on Ikoria. Some creatures hunted different prey, lived in new habitats, and thrived on mutation itself.
The fifth cartouche is the final affirmation of glory, granted only to the worthy dead.
"I know one night it won't come back. Then I'll know it's truly done its job."
—Braenna, cobblesmith
"She walks among us unseen, learning from our imperfections."
—*The Seer's Parables*
Such cloaks are in high demand both by assassins and by those who fear them.

It dodges waves of water to prepare for waves of magic.

As your ship clears the edge of Waterdeep harbor, you notice pirate sails on the horizon. What has made them so bold?
Heavy light flooded across the landscape, cloaking everything in deep crimson.
The Golgari don't bury their dead. They plant them.
"I packed three more electroconduits into each test wand. You'll experience a brief tingling sensation."

"The ice cracked underfoot; strange shapes swam beneath the surface. Who else has walked this blighted path?"
—Iskene, Kannah storyteller
What he lacks in patience, intelligence, empathy, lucidity, hygiene, ability to follow orders, self-regard, and discernible skills, he makes up for in sheer chaotic violence.
The emotional echoes of dryad gatherings attract lost souls.

There's always room for one more.

"O to be a dragon . . . of silkworm size or immense . . ."
—Marianne Moore, "O to Be a Dragon"




"More obedient than any dog."
—Tezzeret
"I awoke to the face of beauty, my body fully healed. In that moment I knew my destiny was the Conclave's to shape."
—Rogad, Selesnya initiate

"Send in your cavalry! Diaglu loves horsemeat."
It holds within it an unsolvable riddle. A creative answer yields an invitation to the guild.
"The emergence of the Eldrazi isn't necessarily a bad thing, as long as you've already lived a fulfilling and complete life without regrets."
—Javad Nasrin, Ondu relic hunter

"Does Teysa think me blind to her scheming? Ambition runs in our family."
"Touch no tree, break no branch, and speak only the question you wish answered."
—Von Yomm, elder druid, to her initiates

The source of the Cabaretti's Halo turned out to be a single teenage girl.



"Life's greatest lessons don't come from focus or concentration. They come from breathing and simply noticing."
—Seton, centaur druid
Like some foul herdbeast, it grazes on the dead.
Under Drana's leadership, vampires are finding new strength in unity.

Every twitching nerve and pulsing vein carries a message, discernible with the right tools.

A shield of light admits no shadow.

Merchants of the Underworld trade in coins of clay. Gold serves another purpose.





"Healing is a matter of time, but it is sometimes also a matter of opportunity."
—D'Avenant proverb

"Fools view winter as the season of death because they cannot see the life underneath."
Out of the blackness and stench of the engulfing swamp emerged a shimmering figure. Only the splattered armor and ichor-stained sword hinted at the unfathomable evil the knight had just laid waste.
The most successful of Simic creations is cytoplasm, a living, symbiotic substance that feeds off genetic rhythms and strengthens its host in return.

Sins that would be too gruesome in the light of day are made more pleasing in the dark of night.

Acolytes of the lost Lord Windgrace fight to keep Urborg relics out of Cabal hands.





Take two steps north into the unsettled future, south into the unquiet past, east into the present day, or west into the great unknown.
Mages often seek to emulate the powerful relics lost to time and apocalypse.
It isn't truly born until its first flight.


A lonely sentinel facing gales, hurricanes, and tides of homicidal spirits.
"Our forces number more than the leaves of Vitu-Ghazi. Do not provoke us."
"I was called to this world of steel, and it will be my steel that answers."
—Elspeth
Fblthp had always hated crowds.

They fight so closely together a mouse couldn't slip past their guard.
"It is true that we monks hold the key to paradise, but most don't understand that the paradise we guard is the one within."
—Diary of Azusa


"Every Silumgar blade carries the blessing of our dragonlord."
—Xathi the Infallible
"The noble work of our order is to infuse all life on Esper with etherium. Our goal will be reached more rapidly if new life is … suppressed."

"If I am to die, I will die in the embrace of immeasurable flame."

"Have you ever seen a world fall to its knees? Watch, and learn."
—Ob Nixilis



"Gix doesn't want a people to rule but puppets to entertain his madness."
—Xantcha, Phyrexian outcast
Sometimes it is better to be swift of foot than strong of swordarm.
—Elven proverb
「古い魔法の小物を扱うときは注意してください。それが以前に何者だったか分かりませんから。」
—-ロアホールドの学部長、オーガスタ
"The answers are here. This is the way through the trial."
Some who die senseless deaths return as formless spirits, seeking answers where there are none.






Merfolk don't always know what they're looking for, but they're certain once they find it.
"All who set foot in Paliano are pawns in someone's play for power."
—Marchesa, the Black Rose
"That must weigh heavily on your soul. Let me purge it for you."
"All are not equal—neither in life nor after death. Bontu's favorites will stand highest in eternity."
—Senifet, vizier of Bontu
"What some call obsession, I call the quest for perfection."



Unlike previous conflicts, the war between Urza and Mishra made Dominia itself a casualty of war.
"The land has been gracious enough to let you tread upon her for years. That privilege is about to end."
—Liefellen, Quirion exarch

The Minotaurs of the Hurloon Mountains are known for their love of battle. They are also known for their hymns to the dead, sung for friend and foe alike. These hymns can last for days, filling the mountain valleys with their low, haunting sounds.


Some changelings born at Velis Vel never return, but their essence never leaves.





Some bog witches practice the strange art of batrachomancy, reading portents in the number, size, and color of warts on a toad's hide.

There is no "I" in "team," but there is definitely "meat."
"Be still."
—Azor
The light sigh of its breath whistles through its bones.
Whoever survives the first blow lives to land the second.
"I knew a creature carved from a dream of wild freedom. Any attempt to leash or exploit it failed, and at terrible cost."
—Ashling

Agents of the Architects of Will mark their victims as a reminder that their secrets are secret no longer.
Mikey "the Mouth" kept his nickname after he struck a deal with Gregorio, even though he never spoke another word.
It whispers words spoken centuries ago, coaxing wisdom from the ghosts of civilizations past.
Enlightenment is not gained by striking the bell or hearing its toll. It's found in the silence that follows.
Thinking of dinner made Squee realize that the forest was probably thinking the same thing.

A regular guest at the Royal Masquerade, Arien is the envy of the Court. She appears in a new costume every hour.





Only by sacrificing any semblance of defense could Gerrard best Greven.
"Heed the lessons of our time: the forms of water may move the land itself and hold captive the fires within."
—Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran royal mage

Sometimes the *eludha* is a sacred harmony of souls. Sometimes the bonder grabs some fur and holds on tight.

"It's a thankless job, and you'll probably die in an explosion. But the pay is pretty good."
—Toothlicker Harj, Orcish Captain

"Do you smell something burning?"
"GOTCHA!"
—Jaya Ballard, task mage

"Let nothing own the skies but the wind."
—Dejara, Giltwood druid
It traps an explosion within its stony skin.
"What is mana but possibility, an idea not yet given form?"
—Jhoira, master artificer
Information travels quickly through Ravnica's network of messengers and thought agents.

The God-Pharaoh's benevolence concealed the factory he created to produce an army of Eternals.

"Please, come in! Hors d'oeuvres are on the table."
Armageddon has become a site of holy pilgrimage for the Orks: a planet where the fighting never stops.
"To control the present we must master the future."
Two days after the forge was completed, the faeries were immune to its flames.
Friends teach what you want to know. Enemies teach what you *need* to know.

"You've begun to understand the hedrons' true purpose," said Ugin. "The Eldrazi can be imprisoned."
"And how did that work out last time?" asked Jace.
"Pathetic. You might as well have protected your treasures with a paper box and some string."
Knights fight for honor and mercenaries fight for gold. The militia fights for hearth and home.
"The bolts of our ballistae smashed into the monstrous thing, but our hopes died in our chests as its gears continued turning."
—Sevti Mukul, *The Fall of Alsoor*
Though losses run high among the scouts of the Stone Havens, they never flinch from their duty.
"The predator knows the true way of the world. Life is conflict. Only the strong survive."
—Garruk Wildspeaker

The *Weatherlight* banked sharply as the colossal beast rose up to crush the lone rider. "My bet's on the dirt," Gerrard said flatly.
"Every choice alters the path of fate."
—Sarkhan Vol


The Broken Lands are littered with the remnants of civilizations long dead and infested by terrors very much alive.




"One's blade is only as sharp as one's conviction."
—Ajani Goldmane



Smart artificers clean up after themselves.
"Power is wasted on the weak. They never keep it for long."
—Nicol Bolas
Before Phyrexia's corruption, many of Mirrodin's creatures were more curious than cruel.


...but the price of Mangara's freedom was Asmira's life.
Baby dragons can't figure out humans—if they didn't want to be killed, why were they made of meat and treasure?
An eye for detail, a mind for numbers, a soul of clockwork.
Cut it down, bury it in snow, put it to the torch. The rose will still bloom again.
"I felt unworthy even to dream of it."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator

In the memories of those they lost lies the strength needed to defend their city.


"This footlight's broken. Get me a stagehand!"
—Judith
"Corpses of those slain by russet mold grow new moldies. Not the legacy most of us aspire to."
—Elminster

Safety twelfth.
It exemplifies the ideals of the Dromoka: strength, unity, and honor.
When the Planeswalker Angrath called dinosaurs "dragons," the name stuck in certain pirate circles.

Worse than the obscuring mists are the ghastly faces that appear in the glow of spectral lanterns.

On Evos Isle, the swift and formidable aven enforce the will of the ruling sphinxes.
As the Eldrazi spread, no secret that could give Zendikar's defenders an advantage was considered too dangerous to seek.
Death free throat from thirst, mouth from speech, feet from earth.
—Kor requiem




"He asked if I had work for him. No wasn't the right answer."
—Samila, Murasa Expeditionary House





The king of Yavimaya's waters pays constant attention to his subjects . . . and thrives on their adulation.

The Earth herself lends her strength to these walls of living stone, which possess the stability of ancient mountains. These mighty bulwarks thwart ground-based troops, providing welcome relief for weary warriors who defend the land.


2016 North American Vintage Champion




"A touch of vine sap in the blood, and the flesh knits as quickly as new roots twining."
—Freyalise
"What do you have that I cannot obtain?"
—Mairsil, called the Pretender



"Keeping order is a task too important to relinquish in death."
—Abrado, Custodi priest
A single lie unleashes a tide of disbelief.

Cast out of the Conclave generations ago, these elves found a home in the corrupted districts of the Golgari.


It lingers near the outposts of the Makindi Trenches, inadvertently granting another layer of defense.
Otaria's last defense against the wave of chaos threatening to engulf it.
Merfolk don't always know what they're looking for, but they're certain once they find it.







The distinction of bearing the gods' banner is nothing compared to the glory of being closer to Nyx.
The earth walks, strongest of all.
He ferried weapons, spells, exotic animals—but his most dangerous cargo was the truth.
It is everywhere you've ever been.
Its growl is a long, rumbling grind of gears and clockwork, its bark a blast of hissing steam.

"My enemies' death yields threefold benefit: removal, reuse, and research."
—Volrath
If an elf can dream it, a dwarf can build it, and a gremlin can eat it.
"You sought to anger me, Nahiri. Soon you will see how well you have succeeded."
Thassa's favor followed him to the Underworld. Even the waves of Nerono obeyed his will.
"The wolf-things are no mere beasts, but the lieutenants of the Baron."
—Taysir
Where dragons once slept, their bones now rest.


Before criticizing, walk a mile *(about 1.6 kilometers)* in their head. That way, when you do, you're a mile away and you have their head.


As Gideon kept the brood lineages at bay, Chandra incinerated the bound Eldrazi titans.


It's hard to say which is more deadly: her bike or her bite.


The heartlink between soldier and steed is hatched with the aesthir struggling from its shell.




Cephalids seek knowledge not to better themselves, but to best others.
"Often greatly outnumbered in battle, Dwarves relied on catapults as one means of damaging a large army."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV*
The chasm of years and worlds collapsed under the power of their embrace.

Seven wives made seven pies from seven apples, each plucked from its branches. Now bare and bitter, it comes to exact its price: one apple, one bone.
A duel to first blood means something very different when a vampire is involved.


"Ya can eat it or ya can weave it, but ya can't fight in it."
—Zeki, reef pirate
"Why would I consider penance for my actions when I have so many subjects willing to do it for me?"
—Lord Konda
Bred as living shields, these slivers have proven unruly—they know they cannot be caught.

"The forests have succumbed to ruin, but the spirit of Krosa remains alive and vital in these devouring spores."
—Zyd, Kamahlite druid


It grows several feet a year.

"Within each of you is the strength of a landslide."
—Kumano, to his pupils


"Birth and death are both reversible."
—Nicol Bolas
"There's very little that escapes me, Greven. And you will escape very little if you fail."
—Volrath
One thorn to warn, ten thorns to defend, a hundred thorns to destroy.
"It's the largest library in the Multiverse. Of course it has the largest librarians."
—Kasmina


"I study the past to find hope for the future."
"Species XR17 feeds upon the mental energies of its victims. This explains why the goblins remain unaffected."
—Riptide Project researcher

Sometimes the cannoneer must become the cannonball.


A boggart's mind is a tinderbox of volatile thoughts, hungry for a spark.


"I said 'pick his brain,' not 'tear off his head.'"
—Riptide Project researcher
The Consulate had access to thousands of innovative devices displayed at the Inventors' Fair. A few small changes transformed some of them from marvels of ingenuity to instruments of oppression.
"I can't think with all that screaming."
"Until you have lived as a statue, do not talk to me of pigeons."
—Karn, silver golem
"It's just playing with us, Marsden."
—Dafynne the Radiant, last words




If a spriggan's eyes are larger than its stomach, it has ways to remedy the situation.
Only death breeds in stagnant water.
—Urborg saying


The dogs of war are nothing compared to the cats.
Within silent clearings guarded by living palisades, the natural world guards its most precious secrets.
"I made that! It's mine! Did you see that?"
"The Order of Jukai accepts only the strongest of body and spirit. I will train until I meet their expectations."

"Beast. Defiler. The source of all my pain."
—Ihsan's Shade


Nature abhors a zombie.

"Countermagic is a simple process of breaking matter into its elementary particles."
The clamor of war ceased as both armies stood and marveled at the beauty of Gaea's work.
"The trick is, once you get moving, don't stop!"
She weaves an elaborate spell of love, care, and protection, enveloping her people in soothing warmth.

"If you wish for blessings, mortal, ask your demon masters. We've given enough to your kind."
Where the dead serve as diversion, decor, and dessert.


"If you weren't born with it, you don't need it."
—Grahilah, former trader of Amiqat
Hidden within the clicking, chittering swarm is a unique mind, still young, but growing more aware as time passes.
"I write upon clean white parchment with a sharp quill and the blood of my students, divining their secrets."
—Shauku, Endbringer

Inquisitors are taught scripture, philosophy, and the fine art of sharpening an axe.
Each fallen friend was a seed of regret, eager to blossom again in Gaea's name.

In lieu of payment, he was granted permission to devour any unauthorized visitors.
"Say hello to my little friend."
Sharper than wind, lighter than air.


A single spore from a Tyranid Hive Ship can spell doom for a solar system.
"In these halls there is no pass or fail. Your true test comes with the first full moon."

"Even storm clouds bow to worship Avacyn."
—Elder Rimheit


"Let's see. I've been here, here, here, here, and here. Where next?"
—Olenn, tireless traveler
"Right now you are a feeble stick, but I will help you grow some rings."
"Why, Gideon? Of all people, why save me?"
The paradise of Amrou Haven had become a field of cinders. Its people struggled to survive, hoping to see visions of its past in the strange storms that quickly passed.
"The Goblins would kill to get ahold of this one."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
The mournful lowing of brushstriders warns of changing weather and ill winds.
Nothing lives within it, yet there is life.

"The Simic will be fined for contaminating the waterways. In the meantime, seize that blob!"
—Arrester Polgar
"The old gods awoke and sent fingers of fire to see what was left of the old ways under the endless city."
—Daiva, Gruul storyteller



The Soul of the World has returned.
As patient and generous as life, as harsh and merciless as nature.
"My earliest work escapes me."
—Stitcher Geralf



"What you build, we will destroy . . . and bury you in the rubble!"
Puppeteered by Heidar's icy hand, they were sacrificed to the Frost Marsh to raise Haakon's army.
Its exploits are the stuff of legends among local chefs and fuel for nightmares among the forest thallids.
"The colossal thing rumbled over the ridge, tree husks crumbling before it. The ones we were already fighting howled as it came, their muscles suddenly surging, and we knew it was time to flee."
—Llanach, Skyshroud ranger
Without Embereth's courage, the realm would falter and fall.
The sigil holds different meanings depending on its form and presentation. While some wear it as a sign of status, others wear it as a sign of debt.


"I implore you not to forget the horrors of the past. You would have us start the Brothers' War anew!"
—Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi heretic

"I am very much in the mood to start handing out expulsions."
"These seeds waited faithfully for the sun to rise again. Now, their patience is rewarded."
—Wrenn

Gerrard offered no defense to Orim's condemnation; the mission was under his command, and he was responsible.

"Procedural misstep: provocation of geists for the purpose of yielding more energy can compromise containment units. Next action: clean up mess."
—Laboratory notes
"You could win a pointy stick! Or a drippy eyeball. Or a little triangle froggy thing. Or some wavy lines . . . ."



"To a creature like that, we must seem like, well, bugs."
—Dars Gostok, Firefist captain

The pen is mightier than the sword.
"Serve me, and live forever."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
A dragon learns humility only in the moments before its death.
"The little guy had guts at least. You can see 'em right there between those cobbles."
—Glunk, freelance crusher
"Above the waves you may be mighty indeed, but down here you belong to me."
"It is not that you will go mad. It is that you will beg for madness."
—Volrath



"My rule persists beyond death itself."

"Well, it also makes a very nice flower pot. . . ."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi machinist
"My angel is the flint, and I am her steel."

Nature doesn't walk.
"My specialty is theoretical universal limits and ways to circumvent them."

Debate rages among the viziers whether comparing the kudu's horns to the God-Pharaoh's is blasphemy or reverence.
"Murder of the living is tragic, but murder of the idea is unforgivable."
—Janus, speaker of the synod

For Mittens, it was just another day at the beach.




Between the five of them, they'd committed every crime on the books and invented a few new ones.


"Time flows like a river. In Tolaria we practice the art of building dams."
—Barrin, master wizard


It harmonizes with the essence of its master.





This dinosaur doesn't know what will kill him, but he's determined it won't be heart disease.

Goblin generals don't distinguish between troops and ammunition.
"Beg me for life, and I will fill you with the glory of Phyrexian perfection."
"Long after the land has given up the last of its secrets, there will still be mysteries in the depths of the sea."
—Kiora
Brimstone marks this drake's territory. Unfortunately for travelers, all of the Burning Isles smell likewise.
"Orcish armies often employed the smaller, swifter, and less intelligent Goblins as spies."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. I*
"Beauty to the eye does not always translate to the touch."
—Naimah, Femeref philosopher
"I give them dreams so wondrous that they hesitate to return to the world of the conscious."
—Garild, merfolk mage
"It's no challenge to master a Mercadian."



"From in here, everything looks like dinner."
"You have led us to triumph over the forces of Mogis!" said Brygus the Brave, clapping the Champion on the back. The Champion wiped the sweat and blood from her brow. "I count eight graves," she said. "Too many to call this a victory."
—*The Theriad*




The fatal flaw in every plan is the assumption that you know more than your enemy.
Slow and steady may not always win the race, but at least it doesn't end up splattered on the walls.
"We speak the dragons' language of flame and rage. They speak our language of fury and honor. Together we shall weave a tale of destruction without equal."

Through failure we learn our finest lessons in humility.
"The light of an angel's glance is warm, but her fixed stare blinds and burns."
—Calexis, deacon of the New Order of Serra

All the junk, refuse, and offal of the Krark Clan is diligently collected, melted down, and made into more junk, refuse, and offal.
Some elves believe that their survival instincts are born of many cycles of reincarnation.
"I watched its blade swing through me, but I was hollow, empty. I saw its face contort in rage but could not hear it snarl."
—Klattic, Boros legionnaire
There's no such thing as a little bit of lava.


"All who set foot in Paliano are pawns in someone's play for power."
—Marchesa, the Black Rose

A lonely sentinel facing gales, hurricanes, and tides of homicidal spirits.
"Vulshok flail, Viridian shield, loxodon blade . . . Tazzir, bring the Moriok hook and assemble the rookies."
—Vy Covalt, Neurok agent









"Lord Bolas has shown me how each miserable little life holds untold resources."
"We are a product of our ancestors, the apotheosis of countless noble generations. Speak their names with reverence, and they will guide your path."



Zombies and necromancers agree: easy access to brains is preferred.


"Soldiers wear down and enemies collapse—but the ballista never tires."
—Ballista captain
Mother, sleep / Dream our lives Our roots your soul / Our leaves your bed.
"We decide who is worthy of our works."
—Gix, Yawgmoth praetor
Karn's creation allowed him to monitor events across Dominaria—and everything he saw worried him.


What once spied upon Mirrodin from above now waits below for another to assume control.
"Rage courses in every heart, yearning to betray its rational prison."
—Sarkhan Vol

"Not even the magistrate in his lofty tower is out of our reach."
—Cateran overlord
Doing something at the last minute isn't so bad when you can make that minute last.

Those who hear her go mad with inspiration.
The undisputed master of the mountains of Shiv.
A fragment of ancient power lost in the heart of Ora Ondar.
Common Gruul career aspirations: berserker, shaman, catapult.



Fayden didn't know if the giant had created the spehere's magic—only that he had to escape it to find Sifa.


Self-reflection is not without its perils.



Before any major undertaking, a Cylian elf seeks the guidance of a visionary to learn the will of the gargantuan ancients.

"May the ocean take it"
—Nephalia expression meaning
"good riddance"
"I fear no army or beast, but only the morning fog. Our assault can survive everything else."
—Lord Hilneth


"Imagine a thunderstorm that's also a tactical genius. That's him."
—Dars Gostok, Firefist captain



"Tree-tall giants confronted her, fiercely demanding her tribute;
Fox-cunning Callaphe's slippery speaking entangled their senses..."
—*The Callapheia*



Each of his twenty-two braids is bound with bone and leather from a foe.



"How truly vast this city must be, that I have traveled so far and seen so much, yet never once found the place where the buildings fail."
Hazoret's gift is bestowed only once.
"Honor rides before us. All we have to do is catch up."
—Danitha Capashen


The wardens watch for illegal tactics and protect spectators from the occasional rogue fireball.
"With each knight that rode out from the bone-white keep, the queen's soldiers felt their courage failing."
—Krinnea, *Siege of the Bone Spire*

"Do not mistake tranquility for domestication. This land is wild, and will always remain so."
To the Golgari, anything buried is treasure.




Mood: We will conquer you.

Mulch is the fabric of life in the forest. Plants live in it, they die in it, and then they become part of it, feeding countless generations to come.
Bred for battle in the Grand Coliseum, these wurms annihilated whole ecosystems when released into the wild.

"May all the cairns of Jund be toppled."
—Meren of Clan Nel Toth
"The Knowledge Pool knows. Memnarch understands."
—Janus, speaker of the synod

When the earth shudders, the sky overflows.
Nobody thought twice about checking their weapons at the door, until they were informed there was no weapon check at the door.
Centuries of scouring sands have carved and polished the rocky terrain of the Shefet.

"We don't make mistakes, just happy little accidents."
—Bob Ross

"After death you face paradise, damnation, or Tariel."
—Priest's teaching
"Yavimaya is one being—one vastness of rippling leaves, one deepness of roots, and one chatter of animals—of which I am one part."

Clenched teeth do not bite.
—Cho-Arrim saying
The foyer is littered with the coins it demands but can no longer hold.


From the moment they swore their oaths, they belonged to their lord, sword and soul.



"People love to follow fools; they don't feel so alone then."
—Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi Heretic

"History is a potent weapon."
—Karn, silver golem
"Murder clad in crimson beauty,
An end to life and love and duty."
—Barrow witch incantation
"I order you to volunteer."


"From void evolved Phyrexia. Great Yawgmoth, Father of Machines, saw its perfection. Thus The Grand Evolution began."
—*Phyrexian Scriptures*



Abandoned tunnels and bunkers below the hive city have been secretly recolonized and dubbed the "Forbidden Cities."


"The Great River will not be tamed."
"The Boros lack vision. Give them a convenient scapegoat and they'll be blind to the true threats."
—Lazav



Held aloft by metabolized magic, trygons are ravenous for sources of mystic fuel.




"Unsafe Terrain Ahead—Turn Back"
—Sign near the former location of Pyrtagh Cairn
"He is a ghost that has never known life."
—*The Seer's Parables*
"Airships are too confining. If I'm in the sky, I want to feel the wind in my hair and taste the aether."

Most myr monitor other species. Some myr monitor other myr.










Its beak rends flesh and bone, exposing the tender marrow of dream.
"Curse Reveka, and curse her coddled conjurers. Their sorcerers' school shall yet be ours."
—Irini Sengir






Its blood is life. Its body is growth.
Butcher's training, warrior's heart.
Renegade supply lines are, by necessity, mobile and difficult to disrupt.


Its wings shimmer with dreams absorbed from its enemies.


The Simic use the claws as scalpels, while the Rakdos use them for tattooing and torture. The Gruul use them to pick their teeth after lunching on the rest of the carcass.


"Even from miles away, I could see our eagles circling. That's when I knew we were needed at home."
—Kanlos, Akroan captain


"The elves are right: Death inevitably leads to life. But the truly powerful don't just experience this cycle. They control it."
—Crovax, ascendant evincar


All suns must set.
"To death all must go, and so in death lies ultimate power."
—Geth, Lord of the Vault
One croaked sermon spreads propaganda and plague.
Some Akroans make the dangerous pilgrimage to the volcanic temples of Purphoros, where oracles known as flamespeakers glean omens from lava.




The herds follow as new growth arises.
"I'm certain there's a shortcut here . . ."
Like many Izzet creations, weirds are based on wild contradictions yet somehow manage to work.

"Our law prohibits capital punishment. We believe even the gravest offenders have the chance to redeem themselves."
—Torian Sha, soul warden
Its teeth exist only for decoration.
"For unwavering commitment and unflinching strength, the Order of the White Orchid confers its sigil. Rise, knight-captain, and do your duty."


The Arturan conjurers took the strange, alien fossil and patterned their own twisted creations in its image.


The overnight appearance of miles of "armed" Wu forts at Guangling frightened a much vaster Wei force into fleeing for their lives.

Illusion steals reality from the unwise.



Only the Eldrazi mind thinks in the warped paths required to open the hedrons and tap the power within.

"One head watches for Consulate enforcers. The other watches for renegade thieves."
—Crime Lord Gonti
If only it had three brains, too.
Such power grows the body as it shrinks the soul.
"Ancient one, we have reached the promised shore. The Immortal Sun is near. Drink and awake."
"Murder clad in crimson beauty,
An end to life and love and duty."
—Barrow witch incantation
Deserts are inhospitable, not uninhabitable.





The results of Rashmi's experimentation forced her to consider the possibility that multitudinous realities existed beyond her own.


Street folk call them "spire mice," but behind the mockery is an unspoken envy of the ledgewalkers' skill at avoiding harm.


"Justice is toothless without punishment. Righteousness cannot succeed without the suffering of the guilty."
—Razia, Boros archangel
Gruul oracles see omens in all forms of destruction: the entrails of a maaka's prey, the flight of vultures over a battlefield, the scattering of toppled stone.



"My pet will pick the ripe fruit from your tortured brain as if it were hanging from a vine."
—Kaervek
The most successful entertainers on New Capenna feature an element of medium-to-extreme danger in their acts.
Survival of the purest.

"The road to truth has many branches, and so must the cane with which I walk it."
—Voln the Elder
「自然は残酷でも親切でもない。感情ではなく、必要性に応じて機能するのよ。」
――ウィザーブルームの魔道生徒、ダイナ

Some say they have the blood of hawks running through their veins.




"To those who can hear it, Gaea's battle song brings power as swift as sunlight and as enduring as the deep roots of the forest."
—Gamelen, Citanul elder
Occasionally members of the Institute of Arcane Study acquire a taste for worldly pleasures. Seldom do they have trouble finding employment.



Call one, call them all.
"My, how shocking."
@-Barrin, Tolarian archmage

Fall like night upon the foe.
—Motto of the Knights of Dusk


"I'll see you soon, Subjects 25 and 26. I've got a good feeling this time!"

Though Volrath is long dead, the slivers have become everything he wanted them to be: mindless instruments of destruction and despair.




"As the war progressed, the destruction the kami caused became more widespread and less predictable."
—*Observations of the Kami War*
"Procedural misstep: provocation of geists for the purpose of yielding more energy can compromise containment units. Next action: clean up mess."
—Laboratory notes
"We do not swerve."
—Tah-crop charioteer motto

Its form reflected humanity as it stood during the Kami War: disjointed, confused, and incomplete.
A king's knowledge does not vanish when the heart stops beating.

Even the other Goblin races shun the Marsh Goblins, thanks to certain unwholesome customs they practice.
The heart of Ravnica disappeared before anyone could strike a blow in its defense.
"Momentum is a great ally."
"It moved this way, an' that way, an' then before I could stick it, it jumped over my head an' was gone."
—Jula, goblin raider
"click . . . click . . . whirrrr . . . beep."
Once a welcoming hub for explorers, Affa became a place of guarded tongues and quick defenses.
Justice flies swiftly on angry wings.
Its belly produces a boiling-hot fluid it can spit as a weapon or spin slowly enough to freeze into a defensive web.



Scribbles of a lunatic and formulas of a genius are often indistinguishable.


"The nezumi will do things for money no other thinking creature would consider. This, of course, makes them useful beyond words."
—Meloku the Clouded Mirror








"Why do guards always look surprised when we bash them?" asked Ruric. "I think they expect a bribe," said Thar.
"To a trained mind, the cold is but a momentary distraction."
"Rage is the only freedom left to me."
Infested with vermin, ever hungering, dropping from night's sky.




"Where will you run when I punish you with the very ground you flee on?"
—Nicol Bolas

Had Gerrard realized he'd end up fighting against them, he might not have trained them so well.
"I've lit most everything on fire—trees, rocks, even the water. Now it's time to burn the clouds."
"I welcome it. The pasture is cleared of weeds and the wolves are frozen solid."
—Lumi, goatherd

"We respect all lifeforms, but this one we respect from a distance."
—Mandor, Selesnya ranger
"Shiv may be surrounded by water, but the mountains go far deeper."
—Fire Eye, viashino bey
Let the Dimir worry about witnesses. For the Rakdos, screams count as applause.

"What makes a frog lizard any worse than a bird horse? Prejudice against the Simic, that's what. It's unfair!"
—Thados Arquef,
Guardian Project biomancer



"At heart, Urza was an inventor, not a warlord. Over time, the burdens of leadership left him as cold and calculating as his mechanical creations."
@-The Antiquities War
When Raganorn unsealed the catacombs, he found more than the dead and their treasures.
Empires rise and fall, but evil is eternal.
The ur-golems concealed one of their towers out of fear that its power would be abused, and in anticipation of a time when its power would be sorely needed.
You're driven not by a lust for gold or baubles, but by the thrill of danger and the excitement of the unknown.



"May they speed to their task, for the Skyknights alone cannot hold Kjeldor safe."
—Arna Kennerüd, Skycaptain
A blazing sun that never sets.
"Arcum is a babbling fool! Phyrexian technology is our greatest blessing. Take this delightful trinket for instance . . ."
—Heidar, Rimewind master
"We are bearers of the ancient light, keepers of sun-crowned Heliod's blessings. Fight, and the light will protect you!"

This timeworn relic was responsible for many of Urza's victories, though he never fully comprehended its mystic runes.
"As usual, my brother's maneuvers are brash and impulsive."
—Urza
The only livestock that will survive for long in the Smelting District, ember beasts serve many functions—none of them willingly.

For those who need to make a quick departure without attracting undue attention.

It descended on Estwald like a sudden storm. Moments later, only ashes and agony remained.
"Will you be strong and stand with me?"

One of the most ferocious and deadly gargantuans, the thoctar never sees its worshippers, but it often awakens surrounded by gifts and sacrifices.

"Don't worry. If you lose me I'll be right behind you."
The swarm seemed unmoved by the artificial slivers' destruction. "They clearly were not the leaders," Hanna cursed. "I guess we'll have to do this the hard way."

Yavaimayae necesse mille annis fuit ut illa aluerent, sed modo momentum necesse fuit ut illa pretium probaverent.
The auratog enjoys eating its wards.
One thread connected all the travelers' stories: the ferocity of the mongoose.

"The ground under our feet is a record of every slight against the world, to be avenged at a time of its choosing."
—Gavi, nest warden






Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.




Great art requires pain... but not necessarily the artist's.
"The union of sea and sky makes a perfect cover."
—Talrand, sky summoner

"Whoever obeys God and His Prophet, fears God and does his duty to Him, will surely find success." —The Qur'an, 24:52
Centuries ago, five dragons conquered death to rule the living.


Well suited are the nacatl to a coat of steel and forge-tempered claws.
The grace of the forest and the spirit of the sea.
"From down here we can make the whole wall collapse!" "Uh, yeah, boss, but how do we get out?"



"The tools of evil are mere things. And like all things, they cannot last forever."
—*Song of All*, canto 881


"We have inherited the mysteries of the Thran, but few of the answers."
—Jhoira


To be honest, it's not much dirtier than the ball pit.
Hatred outlives the hateful.
The need to obey was inscribed on every plate in their bodies.
"Is this twisted ceremony simply a mockery of the human rite, or has Olivia fallen for her own charade?"
—Sorin Markov

Only in Ravnica do the wolves watch the flock.

"Boggart blood disgusts me almost as much as the foul creatures themselves."
Nothing escapes a sharp mind.
"Don't worry. I'm not going to deprive you of all your secrets. Just your most precious one."
—Liliana Vess
Great hero or grand betrayer? The truth of Ezuri's legacy is clouded by the fog of legend.


When you see the world as a dragon sees it, everything looks fit to burn.

"Be as fast as lightning, and you will be just as deadly."
—Combat trainer

String, weapons, wax, or jewels—it makes no difference. Leave nothing unguarded in Scarwood.





They traverse the mana-starved wastes in search of richer lands.
"Right now, in these first moments of creation, it is simultaneously nothing and everything."




During the collision of the shards, entire ways of life disappeared without a trace.

Redeemers rise with the sun, and the spirits of the people rise with them.

When Chaos makes a tool that isn't specifically for destroying things, it's usually for finding new things to destroy.


"Watch over my father. Tell him I'm safe, but I won't come home until I find out how to bring him back to his senses, and Kamigawa is again at peace."
—Michiko Konda, last letter to General Takeno

His bolas whirl like galaxies, but it's his enemies who see stars.
In life, it was a fetid, disease-ridden thing. In death, not much changed.


"Stand still and try not to look like prey!"
—Skerk Hobnett, wilderness guide





A prayer to bring demons to their knees.

When it rises, nations fall.





"It's gingerbread, like Mother makes. What is there to be afraid of?"


"The amber of the tree and the blood of my veins are the same."
I heard their eerie howling, the wolves calling their kindred across the frozen plains.


Consulate guards who pursue fleeing renegades into the Cowl often become lost—occasionally permanently—in the city's wildest greenbelt.
"May you drink until you drown but never be sated."
—Odila, witch of Morkrut

Its spines are prized as writing quills by the priests of Gix.



Intent: We'd like to re-imagine the Eternal Witness as an initiate on Amonkhet.

The Dimir would hire her, if only they knew where she lived. The Azorius would condemn her, if only they knew her name.



Instructors at the Kasarna training grounds are capable healers in case their students fail to grasp the subtleties of combat.




Sometimes one fireball isn't enough.
"I used to have hired hands, but I discovered they make better waitstaff with the rest of the body attached."
—Olivia Voldaren






Frozen in fear, the goblins stared upward at the circling hunter-and were promptly eaten by its diving mate.
"It's time for the 'Smash, Smash' song!"
"The pain of searing iron and razor edges pales beside the pleasure of performance."
—Judith

The heart's courage is the soul's guardian.


The sound of the trumpet is both warning and comfort: it tells of approaching danger but also reminds the village folk that someone is there to stand against it.
"Welcome to the Legion. You saved a district—now let's go save the world."

"Halana grew brambles to create a barricade around our camp, hoping that it would keep the wolves out. That was a mistake for which we almost paid dearly."
—Alena, trapper of Kessig

"Your artillery will burn itself out before I allow my focus to waver."

The enormous can still be at the mercy of the small.


"Here sprouted the first seedling of Argoth. Here the last tree will fall."
—Gamelen, Citanul elder

"We often bury our pasts, and then someone comes along and digs them up."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*


"I spent some time in the Legion, but I'm done taking orders all day."
Eldrazi are not the leopard's preferred prey, but they are better than no prey at all.

It started as a mere drop of water. The Magic Mirror crystallized it into much more.
"Only the worthy may pass."
Sometimes everyone decides to go for help at the same time.

"It soars on the winds of dreams."
—Mu Yanling
People ran as never before at the thought of being buried and cremated at the same time.
Skirsdag cultists refused to quietly accept Avacyn's ascendancy.

"Danger is my middle name. Also, I don't know how to spell."




To scrape out a living in Aphetto, wizards are reduced to selling rumors, lies, forgeries, or—if they get desperate enough—the truth.
Elementals born of Jund are as cruel and unstable as the plane itself.

Nothing is sacred to the rats. Everything is simply another meal.
Deepwood's reach is not long, so it invites its enemies in.
"This vulgar mimicry will end now."
—Desmera, perfect of Wren's Run

It is like life and destiny: we think we know the story, but we have read only half the tale.
Takara shook with guilt. She knew the last image her father had seen was her sword flashing toward him.

Blood, bone, and sinew are magnified, as is the rage that drives them. The brain, however, remains unchanged—a little bean, swinging by a strand in a cavernous, raving head.


Victories at Valor's Reach are broadcast via griffins in the sky above.
That's what it's all about.
"Verdant bloom does exist. It merely hides for its own safety."

In war, the best leaders are open to all tactics.


"The Lowlands refuse to suffer at the whims of the High City."


"Three tries to decide your fate! Fabulous prizes! Probably no untold torment!"
When the mighty sleep, the lowly prowl.


It gnashed its teeth, and the battlefield filled with the screech of blade striking blade.
The time rifts remind Yavimaya of the enemies of its past and provide fresh fuel for its fires.

"There is no age at which you stop learning."
No weapon stays on the rack for long in the Burning Yard.
"It'll keep the crows away. Works on neighbors too."
—Old Rutstein

Every Halo smuggler walks a razor's edge between untold riches and sudden disaster.
"The Gateless have risen. The Ten shall fall."
—Ninth District graffiti
Memories that will technically last the rest of your life.
"Why fight over the lumber in a tree's trunk when its branches have room for all?"
—Multani
„Achte immer auf die Schatten der alten Meister. Sie waren vor dir da und werden noch lange nach dir da sein."
—Aus Donatos gesammelten Weisheiten
"You can take the fight out of nearly any creature if you know where its soft spot is."
—Guttor, flesh-warper
Each tooth carries enough bacteria to kill a person in a day or two. But then, gharials do have 138 teeth.
It harmonizes with the essence of its master.



The only blow that matters is the killing blow.
"This one is only a yearling, but it would be wise to move away before we provide it with excellent hunting practice."
—Samila, Murasa Expeditionary House


Krosa's distorted groves bear strange fruit.
"There is only one way forward: into legend."
"Would you give your life to save this world?" Gideon murmured. The pegasus snorted and spread wide its mighty wings.
"You were defeated the moment you declared your aggression."
—Gideon Jura

"All things must eat, after all. Even the air can hunger."
—Gemma, Willow priestess



"One alone is fearsome; one among many is unstoppable."
—Benalish proverb
"There are some qualities—some incorporate things,/ That have a double life, which thus is made/ A type of twin entity which springs/ From matter and light, evinced in solid and shade." —Edgar Allan Poe, "Silence"


"As long as eyeblights exist, the hunt will never end."
—Miara, Thorn of the Glade

Rakdos cultists are her best customers. They never flinch at pain and are seldom good at math.

A gwyllion's favorite trap is the vanity mirror. A bewitched piece of glass traps the looker's soul and does away with the body.





After his hands had crumbled away, leaving only wickedly sharp points, he decided his only purpose was war.


「暴君の怒鳴り声は、最後の財宝がその手を逃げ出すと、次第に泣き言になりました。」
——退位させる者のグリモワール


In the first moments, the gate to the afterlife opened, and the people were prostrate in the light of the God-Pharaoh.
"I do not remember what he said to her. I remember her fiery eyes, fixed upon him for an instant. I remember a flash, and the hot breath of sudden flames made me turn away. When I looked again, Angus was gone."
—A Wayfarer, on meeting Lady Orca
Untold riches await those who forsake the bustling world to search the secret, silent places.


"I have seen it. Seen the end, seen the beginning, the beginning of the end. Not death, no, no. Transcendence!"
"Gaea sings with the voice of nature rampant: a thousand howls, chitters, and cries, and none of them can be ignored."
"Rage can be heard throughout the world, but wisdom comes at a whisper."
—Rielle, the Everwise

"Do you hear that, Sarkhan? The glory of the horde! I made a legend from what you abandoned."
—Zurgo, khan of the Mardu

"Heed the lessons of our time: the forms of water may move the land itself and hold captive the fires within."
—Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran royal mage

With their factories long destroyed, some of Mishra's creations still toil in remote areas, endlessly performing and reperforming their last orders.


"The price isn't negotiable, but I'm sure you'll agree it's fair."


"When there is no one left but the ravens, the Swarm will rise and rule all."
—Lost prophecy of Svogthir
Stolen knowledge can never be stolen back.



The ancient books slowly crumbled, their secrets turning to dust. But their every word sings within the magus's head.

Those who regard the Gruul as savage simpletons underestimate the subtle power of their shamans.




"While, like a ghastly rapid river, Through the pale door A hideous throng rush out forever, And laugh—but smile no more."
—Edgar Allan Poe, "The Haunted Palace"
With heat, sand can form a delicate work of art; with pressure, an impenetrable bulwark.




Locked in the ice of Karfell, the treasures of ancient nobles await in ruins guarded by the dead.
In theory, the death of the Eldrazi should have stilled the Roil. It did not.





It scattered falcons like a lion hunting among jackals.

When nothing but second best will do.
"Life is but the precursor to a long and successful death."




There was no reason to pray. This was already an act of the gods.
Coins of the Underworld are shaped from clay funerary masks.
According to merfolk legend, a denizen of the deep swallows the horizon at the end of each day, bringing on the cold blanket of night.

Ironically, the statues had been constructed as a warning.
The trumpeters of Arashin are ever alert in their watch over the Great Aerie.
"The old ways still work, but a little tech support never hurts."



The rebels assaulted the wall, never suspecting the wall would assault back.


"I do things in my own time."
—Etha, initiate of Rhet crop
Few Cabal fighters fear death. They fear what follows it.
"I had hoped to instill in it the loyalty of a guard dog, but with fire's power comes its unpredictability."
—Maggath, Sardian elementalist
Exhausting a wizard can be exhausting work.
"The snapper is still when all else moves
And strikes when all are dozing."
—*Tales of the Vintara Forest*

"Humans bring nothing but suffering and deceit. They are not welcome in my forest."
Mines became common as cities during the days of the artificers.

Forged from the rubble of the Helvault.
"There's only one way to be sure it's really dead."


"You see that sheen on the fur? The glint in their eyes? Top quality. These are the real deal."

He collects the precious metals, and then converts the rest to propellant.


"Wind is forceful, yet ephemeral. It can knock a dragon out of the sky, yet pass through the smallest crack unhindered."
—Jestus Dreya, *Of Elements and Eternity*





The ouphes finally managed to still the clockwork monstrosity by catching themselves in its cogs.
What cats bury, dogs eat.
—Urborg aphorism
The wilder the frontier, the greater the need for a controlling hand.
"C'mon, fiend. I'll carve you up like a Harvesttide ham."
"I have heard terrible tales of black rains, ashen fields, and metal that screams. I have consoled myself that the tales were a myth of some fevered mind. But today I saw a walker—and now I fear the truth."
—Kasib Ibn Naji, Letters
Foolishly, Najib retreated to his castle at El-Abar; the next morning he was dead. In just one night, the dwarven forces had reduced the mighty walls to mere rubble.
The vanguard is skilled at waging war alone. The enemy is often defeated before its reinforcements reach the front.
"I am rooted in the life of all that thrives around me. You cannot move me."




Dominaria's most ancient evil.
"So large and so quiet—a combination best avoided."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry
"The fire of justice burns like nothing else."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
Akki shells provided good protection when downhill charging became headlong tumbling.
"Urborg's magic is strong. Did Urza send you to protect us or to protect against us?"
—Urborg witch, to Barrin


All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.





"You call it luck. I call it preparation."
A circle of light and a word of confinement.

It *is* the thing that goes bump in the night.
"Catch!"




Nature grows solutions to its problems.


"What a show! We're going to make a killing tonight."
Vedalken eyes don't see the beauty in things. They see only what those things can teach.


"Darkness, hide my fear."

"The light of beauty protects our journeys through darkness."

The vast network of predation on Jund has actually caused some strange creatures to adapt to being eaten.
It's a fool's race to run if all is lost if it be won.


"Some poisons enter through the blood. Some are ingested. Some are inhaled. All ways through which mortals draw strength are paths for poison."
—Agathe, priest of Pharika






From Gaea grew the world, and the world was silent. From Gaea grew the world's elves, and the world was silent no more.
—Elvish teaching



"The Cabal mocks the natural order. For its minions, death is just a pause between duties."
—Kamahl, druid acolyte


Dominarians gladly fought alongside kavu . . . until the kavu figured out some Dominarians were quite tasty.
"I often think on how excited they must feel to be chosen as my prey."
A drop numbs the tongue. A sip sends the heart racing. A draught reforges the body.
The Haazda shield is broad, protecting both the free and the guilded.

Life is best taken one step at a time.
Where wasted life cries out to be reborn.



"In the gathering there is strength for all who founder, renewal for all who languish, love for all who sing."
—*Song of All*, canto 642


"The undead are not 'awakened.' They are evicted when there is no room left in the pit for more bodies."
"Fight through it."
Throw enough goblins at any problem and it should go away. At the very least, there'll be fewer goblins.
Their bond grew over time, as did the height of their jumps.
Tormented by her own existence, Karona turned her wrath on the world that had birthed her.



"The humans and their gods never blessed me. Only the pride deserves my allegiance."



Empires rise and fall, but evil is eternal.
"Why do you weep for the dead? I rejoice, for they have died for me."


In Urborg, few things are less permanent than death.

"You can't have so many people living so close together, all practicing so much magic, and not expect some feedback."
Every predator is something else's prey.
One pirate's wreck is another's reward.

The murdered inhabitants of Hollowhenge impart to the living the terror they felt in death.
Most Quandrix students fundamentally disagree with the concept of "enough."
Few monsters challenged Narset after they sensed her power.
"The dragon has no pretense of compassion, no false mask of civilization—just hunger, heat, and need."
—Sarkhan Vol

"I will go to any length to achieve my goal. Eternal life is worth any sacrifice."
—Zur the Enchanter



"Xantcha is recovering. The medicine is slow, but my magic would have killed her."
—Serra, to Urza





The elite of Ojutai's brood, the skywise see their enemies as puzzles to be solved.


"Within the song of Mat'Selesnya, one becomes all."
—Heruj, Selesnya hierophant
Once, water ran here. Now only dust and ash fall from the clifftops.
There are no small parts, only small performers.
Like the tide, time both ebbs and flows.







Clouds and mists cover the lake as though it were a dreamland. When the wind rises, the mists disperse, opening great vistas of rippling reeds.
"You've never had to trust your breath to an inhuman creature who could crush you at its whim, and I truly feel sorry for you."
—Eagan, seabonder
"No one can catch what won't be caught."
—Kakra, Sea Troll
"I'll show you what you truly desire."



It shows up at one meal wearing the carcass of the last.



After Talrand conquered the depths of Shandalar, his ambitions drove him skyward, joined by servants whose drive and curiosity equaled his own.
"Perfect. Now do it again."
The wise pay as much attention to what they throw away as to what they keep.

"If I have learned anything as a wizard it is this: never fight your own battles."
—Waffa, sorcerer of Nyomba


The evil inside the mountain pulsed at Nissa in a shock wave of madness.
"A good whack on the head usually has the same effect."
—Kamahl, pit fighter



"Hold your position! Leave doubt for the dying!"
—Tahngarth of the *Weatherlight*
Her roots connect her to the forest's wishes.

There's no defending against public opinion.
Surrakar grab things they *don't* want.
A king in Jund, a serf in Esper.

"If you're in Akoum and you glimpse a shadow overhead, the worst thing you can do is duck."
—Chadir the Navigator
Fey energy clings to you, a shimmering reminder of your otherworldly travels.

Auntie Flint was the first to pioneer the spiderwig, a mass of arachnids intended to be worn rather than eaten.
On Murasa, even the trees grow trees.

Maze-runners who pass through the Rakdos gate leave behind their scruples and a significant amount of skin.

"I bring a death none can escape."
The angel remembers her past lives like dreams. Her song held up meadows. Her blade drove back darkness. Her wings carried her across the ages.
Carving lines through the sky, kite sailors map trails for the pilgrims below to follow.


Arel dreamed of winter's end. The next morning she followed a strange trail and found a seedling in the snow.
"I can provide the Coalition with poisons that will break down Phyrexian machinery as easily as they stop the heart."
Like blinking or breathing, responding to an alarm is an involuntary reflex.

The competition is but one aspect of the spectacle.
"Take a quiet moment to reflect on your sins."
—Cleph, Order of Redeemed Souls
"Only the foolish fear Foxfire."
—Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order

"Dragonfire forged me a warrior."
—Rashida Scalebane
"Once you create perfection, what else is there to make?"
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi machinist
Even if giants bring nothing else on a journey, they bring attention.
"Devils need no reason to stir up chaos. The chaos itself is their reward."
—Rem Karolus, Fiendslayer




"All consciousness is one, separated only by a thin veil of the physical."
—Jace Beleren

Every cry lifts her allies toward the thunder.
The viziers serving Rhonas, the god of strength, maintain the menagerie of animals employed during his trial.


"Punch 'em, kick 'em, bite 'em, beat 'em! Burn 'em all and we'll defeat 'em!"
Before predators or prey, there was life.
The chaplain would perhaps have found some small comfort had he known that the replacement window would be named in his honor.
Blight grenades—which induce horrendous effects on their victims—have no impact on the Death Guard, who gladly use the devices in extreme close quarters with the enemy.
Released from a dark curse and bound to a higher calling.
The land is dying, but it will not go peacefully.



Tempest ends and water stills
Gently reinventing the shape
Of all things.
In its shadow, everything changed.





"Any festival you can walk away from wasn't worth attending in the first place."


The mage-smiths of New Benalia have perfected the art of blending fine steel and enchanted glass into weapons that are both beautiful and deadly. Only elite knights are entrusted with these martial works of art.
The Feast of Blood sends new life essence flowing through the vampire who partakes, manifesting as even greater strength and speed.
His twisted mind concluded that if he was what he ate, and he wanted to stay human, . . .
"For what are leaves but countless blades To fight a countless foe on high."
—Elvish hymn





"As you inject the *viscus vitae* into the brain stem, don't let the spastic moaning bother you. It will soon become music to your ears."
—Stitcher Geralf
Some say tales of the Narnam greenhouse are told to scare the children, but every tale grows from a seed of truth.

Don't try to outrun one of Dominia's Grizzlies; it'll catch you, knock you down, and eat you. Of course, you could run up a tree. In that case you'll get a nice view before it knocks the tree down and eats you.
"A skilled decoy can throw your enemies off your trail. A master decoy can survive to do it again."
—Gerrard of the Weatherlight
The ancient green dragon Claugiyliamatar is often seen with a mangled corpse dangling from her mouth.



Conjured from the bowels of hell, the fiery wall forms an impassable barrier, searing the soul of any creature attempting to pass through its terrible bursts of flame.

"Greet death with sword in hand."
Headquartered at the Bastion of the Honorable, the Consulate's enforcers are charged with the impossible task of keeping the peace.




Most of the constructs the renegades used against the Consulate weren't originally intended for combat. But some didn't require much modification.
"All the power of a maro-sorcerer, all the mindless fury of a pitlord. He is a perfect servant.
—Geyadrone Dihada
"Pain isn't a negative stimulus. Pain is a sign of your imperfection."
—Sheoldred, Whispering One

The continent of Ondu is a vast plateau crisscrossed by deep trenches and meandering rivers.


The question isn't whether slivers will adapt to a world's perils but whether the world's perils will adapt to slivers.

Empires rise and fall, but evil is eternal.







"This world tires of its long occupation."
—Nissa Revane

Depending on your point of view, the seal represents a proud guardian of the natural cycle or one who has sold her soul to darkness for eternal life.

"I don't understand the appeal of keeping these things as pets, unless you want your children eaten."
—General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox




"One faith, but many hands in victory."
"Kobolds are harmless."
—Bearand the Bold, epitaph

Few Ravnicans are aware of the vast reefs in their world's hidden ocean. Far beneath the great sinkholes, where the light is blue and dim, merfolk tend the coral labyrinths that feed the benthic ecosystem.





Eating is all it knows.









"Some say she hid the sun herself, a desperate act to save it from its ultimate extinction."
—*The Seer's Parables*

"My master believes anything is achievable."

Unpredictable as the sea itself, Water Elementals shift without warning from tranquility to tempest. Capricious and fickle, they flow restlessly from one shape to another, expressing their moods with their physical forms.



"Seeing one slowly devour one of my party begged the question—do they know what cruelty is?"
—Hastric, Thunian scout
"Whether or not you will bow to me is not open to debate. The question is, will I ever let you rise?"
—Fridius, telemin master

No tongue to chant, yet the forsaken hymn still emanates from its body.
"It's all in the follow-through."
"The promise of victory fills my heart. There is no room for fear."
His dreams are filled with noxious powders and clinking vials.
The competition is but one aspect of the spectacle.

"Trust in the power of stone. Stone is strong; stone shatters swords; stone breaks bones. Trust in stone."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain

An indrik's howl has destructive power much subtler than that of its crushing foot.
Freyalise forbid that any stranger should wander into the Striders' territory.



"The trick to talking sense into Keldons is getting them to hold still. I learned that from Radha."
—Jhoira
"In the arrogance of my youth, I believed I knew all there was to know. Now, my greatest wisdom is a humble awareness of all I have yet to learn."
—Teferi






A passionate recruiter will win a war before the first arrow flies.

They say the Zombie Master controlled these foul creatures even before his own death, but now that he is one of them, nothing can make them betray him.
"He smiles with poisoned lips."
—Empress Llawan



"Course he ran! *I* wouldn't want to stare down that barrel, either!"
—Alaborn soldier
"Do we know what we're doing? Yes—the will of Freyalise."
—Laina of the Elvish Council
The Silvergill school monitors traffic on the Lanes, ensuring that the riffraff don't interfere with travelers.
The warriors she leads can rarely keep pace with her, and neither can the tales.


The intricate dynamics of Rundvelt Goblin affairs are often confused with anarchy. The chaos, however, is the chaos of a thundercloud, and direction will sporadically and violently appear. Pashalik Mons and his raiders are the thunderhead that leads in the storm.
His fists fume with the decay of death, each strike a plague on the hearts of his enemies.

"Centaurs will kill our aesthir if they can; they've always been enemies. Destroy the horse-people on sight."
—Arna Kennerüd, Skyknight
"This world was once so much more than the confines of Naktamun."
"I count the usurpers with my dagger, one death blow at a time."
Bone, stone . . . both taste the same to a hungry basilisk.
Not even a threat to the entire Multiverse could persuade them to put aside their feud.



Don't try to outrun one of Dominia's Grizzlies; it'll catch you, knock you down, and eat you. Of course, you could run up a tree. In that case you'll get a nice view before it knocks the tree down and eats you.

"May they speed to their task, for the skyknights alone cannot hold Kjeldor safe."
—Arna Kennerüd, skycaptain
Four claws, two wings, one beak, no fear.
The forlorn cries of the dead combine to make its laugh.
Its vast network of roots and vines keeps it aware of distant dangers.


Lifespans are measured by its dreadful length.
"Captain, I think that island is following us."
Mouths and wings beyond numbering, but a single mind to guide them.




"Let go of your memories and be reborn."
—Argent Etchings, plate 106, passage 27
"Poor little sun-dweller out past curfew. And to think, you might have survived if it wasn't so close to suppertime."


The mind is a beautiful bounty encased in an annoying bone container.
His watch ends only when he does.

"There's a smoothness to my magic here that I don't find on any other plane."
Pathmages can open doors that aren't even there.
The terrors of the Underworld travel alongside those who return to the mortal realm.
Bred as living shields, these slivers have proven unruly-they know they cannot be caught.





"We sail. We plunder. Then we dance."
Silumgar trains those whom he favors in his magic, granting them the ability to spread his disdain across the land.

Keldon raiders' spoils are limited to what their colos can carry. No matter the value, the rest goes up in smoke.
As whispers and rumors increased, so did the demand for fail-safe barriers.



"Lizards make excellent familiars. They never know when they've lost."
—Matoc, lavamancer





"Only a necromancer would create such a foul form of divination."
—Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen
"It's nothing personal. I'd just prefer if you weren't."
—Ashurel, voidmage

Don't try to ride this steed unless you've got gills too.
"Some folk these days are too restless to dream the dreams we need. We need to teach them to stop and catch their breath."

Samut battled her way through the hordes, shouting the names of those who'd died in her crop and those she hoped yet to save.

"The scythe of time or my blade at your throat—the choice is yours."
—Holux, stronghold racketeer
"Do not presume to speak for yourself."
—Gix, to Xantcha

"According to accepted theory, the Grenade held some kind of flammable mixture and was carried to its target by a hapless Goblin."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV*


"Be sure to get the tree in the picture."
"From a great bonfire at the dawn of time, the first Gruul kindled their rage. The same flame burns in you."
—Kroshkar, Gruul shaman
"The fine print of countless contracts has ensured we are never defenseless."
—Teysa Karlov, Grand Envoy of Orzhov
"We arrived at the battlefield too late. *Again*. Another error on your part, and you will have to answer to me personally."
—General Takeno, letter to the imperial mapmaker
Torching Krosa would be pointless. It grows faster than it burns.
"In the game of conquest, who cares about the pawns if the king yet reigns?"
—Geth, keeper of the Vault
Dwarves have an instinct for repair, an inherent understanding of how systems work, and a reputation for fearlessness. They're perfect candidates for the Fair's emergency response team.

Its tines cannot be rung by mere physical force. Only magic of great power can start its eldritch resonance.
Like any young zombie, Gary dreamed of escaping the underworld to join the circus.
"Whatever volcanoes dream of, it seems like they always wake up grumpy."
—Raff Slugeater, goblin shortcutter

"They tell us the wilds are ours, then they brick them over. They can lie to our faces but not to our fists."
—Ghut Rak, Gruul guildmage
When the rebels couldn't breach the castle to kill Lalor the Obstinate, they tried a more internal approach to depose the pretender king.
"Not all Minotaurs are tribal. Some are freelance."
—Eron the Relentless


An angel's sword impales only the body; her righteousness penetrates the soul.
"There's more where that came from!"








Stray into the Morkrut and it may rise to claim you.
"Destruction is the work of an afternoon. Creation is the work of a lifetime."
"Take inspiration from your enemies, and make their strengths your own."
—Alesha, Who Smiles at Death




"Have you spent a winter high in the mountains, where the ice walks and speaks to the wind? It is not a place for those who have not learned respect."
—Ulnok, Temur shaman
There's no crisis a hellion can't make worse.
The most powerful of akki fire spells were developed at the cost of blood, toil, tears, sweat, and usually a nose or two.

The shapeshifter mimics with a twin's esteem and a mirror's cruelty.
"Acorns? Again?"


"Who will miss you, drywalker? A wife? A child? Perhaps they will blame the sea for your fate, and teach future generations to stay far away from it."

"The light of an angel's glance is warm, but her fixed stare blinds and burns."
—Calexis, deacon of the New Order of Serra


A farewell to arms . . . and feet . . . and legs . . .
What some see as "distracted" is really "fathoming the unfathomable."
Intent: Magic has made a Grater Gargadon and a Lesser Gargadon (see ref). We want you to design the "average" Gargadon.


"Little flower twirl and bloom, arise from this your rocky tomb. Little warrior slash and brawl, be born again to free us all."
Battles are won in nuance.


"Humans use pigs to hunt for mushrooms, don't they? It's like that."
—Harak, Malakir bloodwitch

The thunder of its hooves beats dreams into despair.


"Olivia Voldaren has faith only in herself. We answer to a higher calling."
—Thalia, Guardian of Thraben



The elves of Llanowar look to their past to determine the shape of their future.

Even dragons fear its silken strands.




It took the reclusive Venya Sangmi a lifetime to realize her childhood vision: a band of sunlight made solid.
City officials once sent twenty gleaming automatons to exterminate a nest of gremlins. They soon saw the error of their ways.


He wanders the Moorlands hoping to one day chop off a head worthy of replacing his own.
Stinking of rot, it leaps between gravestones in search of its next meal.

"Leaves more room for the big ones to fight in, you know."
—Jaya Ballard, Task Mage





Under the veneer of the various guilds, each goblin has the same basic need: to run screaming at the enemy and hit a bunch of stuff.
As if there's glitch in the system, the Tangle sometimes folds in on itself, throwing off sparks of mana in a mystifying display.
Not an arrow loosed, javelin thrown, nor sword raised. None were needed.
"Your enemies may be cowardly, my lord, but one should never call them gutless."
Just when you thought you'd survived the first wave.


"Remember the moral of the fireslinger fable: with power comes isolation."
—Karn, silver golem


"You thought I wouldn't see that coming?"
Some will sacrifice everything for but a taste of power.
"And topples round the dreary west,
A looming bastion fringed with fire."
—Alfred, Lord Tennyson, "In Memoriam"


"Mold could catch you."
—Suq'Ata insult
"The Jeskai would have me bow in restraint. So I have found a people unafraid of true power."
The bell's unearthly chime slips into the ears of the dead, waking them rudely from their eternal slumber.
"That must weigh heavily on your soul. Let me purge it for you."
Made by the mad for the work of the wicked.
If no opponent can be found, ogres of the Bolrac Clan will often pick fights with buildings.

"Boasting impenetrable defenses only draws the most tenacious of attackers."
—Yikaro, Atarka warrior

"I'd like to buy a bowel."
"I am a dragonslayer for Lord Silumgar. There is no dragon save him whom I fear."
—Xathi the Infallible



"Whichever side wins, I'm sure the banquet will be superb."
Her sword burns with such brightness that foes avert their eyes and arrows divert their paths.

"The dim resort to violence, for which the nimble prepare."
—Leovold, emissary of Trest
"The turtle lives 'twixt plated decks/ Which practically conceal its sex./ I think it clever of the turtle/ In such a fix to be so fertile."
—Ogden Nash, "The Turtle"

One way or another, everyone gets paid what they're owed.


The evidence was overwhelming. Tovolar's howlpack was getting bolder, smarter, and stronger.
Some train all their lives for a shot at the title. Some just get really, really lucky.
"Call it a cost of doing business. The best way to protect against thieves is to hire better thieves."
—Eron the Relentless
"Now I'm thirsty."
—Korva, Vulshok battlemaster
While defending their southern borders, both the Wu and Shu kingdoms fought against the barbarians' trained elephants.


Not every tale ends in glory.


Kozilek's presence warped the land, stripping away layer after layer.
"If you work at sawing up carcasses, you notice how the joints fit, how the nerves are arrayed, and how the skin peels back."
—Ashnod, to Tawnos
The surviving members of the Markov bloodline drove through a crush of horrors to reclaim their ancestral home.
Among the solitude-loving giantkind, teamwork is unusual. But he appreciates hearing the occasional "Swing down and to your left."
The pulsing heat of the midday Sun burns in the Lion's eye.
—Stone inscription, source unknown

"The trembling lands ruptured, leaving an open door for things from below to emerge."
—Screed of the Mul Daya
No one ever asked what was in Dina's concoctions, so long as they worked.

You've ventured deep into the heart of the mountain to determine what can calm its quaking rage.



Barbarians equate courage with the ability to endure pain.

To the novice necromancers, it looked exactly like a regular human grave.






"This aura threatens the sanctity of your soul. Wrenching it free won't be easy on either of us. If you're ready, we'll begin."
Unbreakable and unappetizing, the crab grows uninterrupted, sometimes to the size of a cottage and beyond.

Though a powerful constrictor, it prefers simply to drown its prey.
For the first time in his life, Grakk felt a little warm and fuzzy inside.

Power radiated from the Weakstone, binding the dragon engine to Mishra's command.

Its students graduate the school and enter history.


"The landbind ritual connects us to our sacred sites. More importantly, it binds us with every other kor who has visited here, through countless generations."

Maze-runners who pass through the Rakdos gate leave behind their scruples and a significant amount of skin.
"When you're on watch, no noise is harmless and no shadow can be ignored."
—Olgard of the Skiltfolk
"The most insidious thing in the world is nonsense that sounds just plausible enough to listen to."
—Lazav
Through ruthlessness and raw ambition, Gix rose through the Phyrexian regime to the exalted rank of praetor. Even while overseeing many of Phyrexia's most important undertakings, Gix continues his own quest for supremacy . . . for in Phyrexia, the weak become fodder for the strong.
"There is no time to remedy our enemies' ignorance. Blast it out of them."
—Aurelia
"Take the deadly grace and strength of the leonin, combined with a pteron mount capable of rending a foe in two and armed with notched steel. That is a skyhunter—and why Taj-Nar has never fallen."
—Raksha Golden Cub



Synchronized spell weaving is a difficult but rewarding skill to master.
"Kill the queen first, or we'll be fighting her drones forever. It is not in a queen's nature to have enough servants."
—Borzard, exterminator captain







Victory favors neither the righteous nor the wicked. It favors the prepared.
The recruits trained in eternal night, fueled by the hope that they might one day see the sun again.


The roar of applause drowned out the melee raging in the lobby.


"There's nowhere in Strixhaven I can't find. Where do you need to go?"


"It's a shame to see such potential wasted on petty evil. Let's correct that, shall we?"



"My people have always been here, and here we shall remain."


"While most overworlders fortunately don't realize this, Gargoyles can be most delicious, providing you have the appropriate tools to carve them."
—The Underworld Cookbook, by Asmoranomardicadaistinaculdacar

"There is great wisdom in rushing headlong into combat . . . if you're prepared."
—Kenjek, captain of the Thousand Swords



You've traced the tensions in Ten-Towns to the dwindling reindeer populations ... but what has been hunting them?



His watch ends only when he does.







"Oi oi oi, me gotta hurt in 'ere Oi oi oi, me smell a ting is near, Gonna bosh 'n gonna nosh 'n da hurt'll disappear." —Traditional

"I've heard it said that a Planeswalker is someone who can always run from danger. But Gideon's right: we're also the ones who can choose to stay."
—Jace Beleren








When the smell of passing thoughts piques its hunger, its maw becomes primed with acid and a taste for brains.

The need to obey was inscribed on every plate in their bodies.




Ojutai's words must be translated from Draconic before his students can benefit from their wisdom.
The demon's yoke is part leash, part noose.
"We pray to Avacyn on high. On snow-white wings fearless you fly. Keep safe our souls. Keep safe our lives. May angels watch us from the skies."
—Children's prayer

Dragons erupt from peaks of chaos and flow from rivers of molten rage.
www.MagicTheGathering.com

"Please, my friends, help yourselves to the help."
—Olivia Voldaren

"It always amazes me what perfectly good things people throw away."
—Ludevic, necro-alchemist
Thaumaturges remain silent around chimeras, lest their words conjure even stranger beasts.

"The best spot to hook one is right behind the gills."
—Rana Cloudwake, kor skyfisher
Those who raged most bitterly at the world in life are cursed to roam the nether realms in death.
The pattern of life can be studied like a book, if you know how to read it.

"I wrote these tales with a quill made from a griffin's feather. And the winning of that feather is quite a tale itself."
—Chulane, Teller of Tales

"How predictable."

To restore the day-night balance, the Celestus mechanism's Sungold Lock must be reunited with its long-lost key.

In the stronghold's dungeons, the shadows hide in the vermin.
"Great art can never be created without great suffering."

When the established order falters, what remains are ordinary people and their struggle to survive.
Warm enough to incubate eggs or incinerate those who would eat them.
The seeds of new life take root in the soil of old.







Naya's celebrants stoke the gargantuans into a rage, loosing a tide of muscle with the precision of an arrow.
The Eastern Paladin knew how highly his southern rival valued horses, so he gleefully prepared a suitable welcome.
"We train for the improbable, like lightning striking the same place twice, or striking everywhere at once."
—Nundari, Sea Gate militia captain



Only a thin layer of dirt separates civilization from an undead apocalypse.
Scholars had puzzled for centuries over the ruins at Tal Terig. Its secrets had always lived within one rune-carved head.


"The sanctity of poverty is an invention of the rich."
—Starke
"It's the must-have gift for everyone on your list. Get one for yourself, too!"
—Chammi, curio vendor

After lightning struck the cliffs, the ore became iron, the iron became steel, and the steel became greaves. The lightning never left.
"I was wrong! Not harmless at all!"
—Norin the Wary
To consult a sphinx is a test in patience. Perhaps that's the point.



As the struggle raged for control of the Immortal Sun, the world grew dark under a blood-red sky.

Some of the eleven minotaur clans of Mirtiin are expert crafters and learned philosophers. Others just like to hit stuff.




"Any fool who would die for honor is better off dead."
—Cabal Patriarch

The only thing worse than a goblin is a goblin that knows his way around.
Hidden within the clicking, chittering swarm is a unique mind, still young, but growing more aware as time passes.
Follow the light. In its absence, follow her.




The ring plays host to some combatants that the spectators love to hate.
"The roterothoper is as insidious as it is ingenious. It is one of the few creations of our school that I take no pride in."
—Baki, wizard attendant








Even the humblest guard of Ojutai's strongholds ponders the puzzles of the Great Teacher's lessons.
Life inspires technology, which expands life's domain.
These devices have been known to pull entire worlds through the Æther.
In the Jamuraan jungles, there is often no separating beauty from danger.


It is the forest beyond the horizon, the mountain waiting to be climbed, the new land across the endless sea.


"Look around you. All you behold is mine to rule. It's the natural way."


Earth Elementals have the eternal strength of stone and the endurance of mountains. Primordially connected to the land they inhabit, they take a long-term view of things, scorning the impetuous haste of short-lived mortal creatures.
Through the smoke and flames it hunts, sniffing out the panicked and confused.


"It is nature that gives us our boundaries and nature that enforces them."
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves

Some believe that Raksha, youngest of the kha, is the reincarnation of Dakan, the first and mightiest of leonin leaders.
The Phyrexians' only interest in organic life is discerning its weakness.
"With this throne, unite your nation."
—Throne inscription

Tap beverages with extreme caution.

Only the Eldrazi mind thinks in the warped paths required to open the hedrons and tap the power within.



With the Hekma breached and its protection removed, the deserts swept in.
A full coffin is like a full coffer—both are attractive to thieves.
"I have seen the night torn into thin darkling strips and woven into shapes too bleak for dreams."
—Crovax
"What good is your blade without your breath?"
—Greht, Gathan warlord
On Otaria, peace and harmony are rare. Places that provide both are cherished.

"Although the Dwarves staunchly defended their walled city-states against the Orcs, their civilization was the first to fall, and its name was sadly lost."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. I*


The lucky armor stopped lightning and lasers, but sadly, also love.
Doom rarely smells this sweet.
"I was never here."
"Nature is more merciless than any hunter I've ever known."
—Zai, nightsquad captain
"In case of fire, treachery, citywide riot, political upheaval, or worldwide societal collapse, break glass."
—Cluestone inscription






Words to bless the eye that reads them, telling of a future beyond the reach of fear.


Divining the future is easy when you hold the power to sway it.

"May your wretched name never grace the annals of history, you ignorant buffoon!"


"The victim was either clawed to death or struck by lightning. Possibly both."
—Pel Javya, Wojek investigator


"There is no tomorrow, so hold nothing back."
Pozo's heart was full of courage, right up until it was full of elven steel.








She talks using riddles her disciples alone can unravel.



"He is judge, jury, and executioner because he killed them all."
—Bishop Cawle of Elgaud
We had taken refuge in a small cave, thinking the entrance was too narrow for it to follow. To our horror, its gigantic head smashed into the mountainside, ripping itself a new entrance.




"To death all must go, and so in death lies ultimate power."
—Geth, Lord of the Vault


"The Baron's drivers are also driven."
—Chandler


"Here perished Rognar the Reckless after his hundred-day battle with the Ironmaw Dragon. We raised these stones to mark his resting place."
—Iskene, Kannah storyteller
Exceptionally poor sailors, Goblins usually arrived at their destination retching and in no condition to fight.
The continent of Ondu is a vast plateau crisscrossed by deep trenches and meandering rivers.
"My mind is the spread of the canopy. My heart is the embrace of the roots. I am deathless Llanowar, its fury and its peace."




There are many Jeskai styles: Riverwalk imitates flowing water, Dragonfist the ancient hellkites, and Flying Crane the wild aven of the high peaks.



"There is no place like a rooftop laboratory in a lightning storm. It's where genius strikes."
—Renna, Selhoff alchemist



"Verdant bloom does exist. It merely hides for its own safety."
He vowed he would never rest until he reached his destination. He doesn't know how right he was.
Tawnos built it to be absolutely impermeable to any force inside. Luckily it worked for any force outside as well.

"I'll have my revenge if I have to call on every force from above and below."

"Guilds be damned. We can fend for ourselves."
—Vennick of the Gateless



She bears the greatest burden of all: that of knowing.
A monster appeared! With a foul claw, it snatched the child and disappeared into the depths of the castle!




Das Erste, was ich spüre, ist die Wut — und dann kommt die Kraft.


"I believe many worlds will bow to Phyrexia. Mirrodin is merely the first."
—Sheoldred, Whispering One
They don't feed; they stoke.
"Always a welcome sight breaking through the clouds."
—Talrand, sky summoner
Air currents whip through the city corridors, creating wind tunnels that accelerate urban drakes toward their prey.






The greatest masters of the craft abandon tools altogether, shaping metal with hand and mind alone.

"Fuses? We have more than enough! Now . . . which one was it?"
—Flearan One-Eye, goblin engineer


They drift in and out of shadow and ever on toward madness.
The auratog enjoys eating its wards.
Grieve for the soul in death dishonored.
—Shadow Guild saying


His prowess gives the guildless hope that they can hold out against tyranny.

"I know one night it won't come back. Then I'll know it's truly done its job."
—Braenna, cobblesmith
"It sees all, but it reveals what it sees only to a chosen few."
—Taigam, Ojutai master
Hatred outlives the hateful.

It shuns everything except its next meal.
Bitten by radioactive beebles in a freak algebra accident, young Ricky Robertson discovered he'd gained the ability to harness the awesome power of fractions!
"The land grows only where the kami will it."
—Dosan the Falling Leaf

"I am not its master. We are of the same pack."
—Ulrich, Krallenhorde alpha


"Let nothing own the skies but the wind."
—Dejara, Giltwood druid

It is ancient, immense, and irresistible.
"Until this expedition is done, that blade is your guardian, your liberator, and your best friend all rolled into one."
—Yon Basrel, Oran-Rief survivalist
Squawks was quick to establish the social pecking order.
"There is great wisdom in rushing headlong into combat . . . if you're prepared."
—Kenjek, captain of the Thousand Swords





Once it consecrated the dead. Now it desecrates them.

"Look at this creature, so like the Conclave it serves. Cut one head and it grows two. Damage it and it flourishes."
—Veszka, Selesnya evangel
"Crease the folds, bend the paper, turn the spirits, shield the soul."
Their shots are fired most often as signals—or at those who didn't get the message.

There's no escaping an enemy that lives inside your head.

"Because the Orc hordes attacked along the entire border, Scouts were essential to Icatia's defense."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. VI*
The warriors fought against the paralyzing waves until even their thoughts froze in place.
Young wumpuses are malevolent and vicious—but they grow out of it.

"If you think twice, I'll cut twice."
For them, the only honorable death is one that leaves a crater.

"Every nightmare is a caged bird that yearns to be set free."
—Ashiok, Nightmare Weaver

Necrites killed Jherana Rure, ending the counterinsurgency.

The soldier moved with fluid poise, his awareness extending far beyond five senses.
"Embrace the storm. Its voice shall echo within you, and its fire shall become your touch!"
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain


To the living, the horn sounds faint and mournful, but to the spirits of Istfell, it is a thunderous call that must be obeyed.


"An immense river of oblivion is sweeping us away into a nameless abyss." —Ernest Renan, *Souvenirs d'Enfance et de Jeunesse*


The lamps on Wyndmoor Street snuff themselves at midnight and refuse to relight, afraid to illuminate what lies in the darkness.
"May the skies be clear of gales and gulls."
—Meletian prayer
"I'd rather go out in a blaze of glory than fade away and be forgotten."
"Ideas drift like petals on the wind. I have only to lift my face to the breeze."

To walk its streets is to burn in its beauty.

Sometimes you have to read between the minds.


Before criticizing, walk a mile *(about 1.6 kilometers)* in their head. That way, when you do, you're a mile away and you have their head.
"Old home never forgotten, new home ours forever."
After weeks of unending darkness, a glimpse of dawn was all the people of Stensia needed to rekindle their will to fight.


The Earth herself lends her strength to these walls of living stone, which possess the stability of ancient mountains. These mighty bulwarks thwart ground-based troops, providing welcome relief for weary warriors who defend the land.
"Better to flare out than to gutter."
—Flamekin expression





"All tinkerers have their heads in the clouds. I don't intend to stop there."


He craves only one commodity.
"In the gathering there is strength for all who founder, renewal for all who languish, love for all who sing."
—*Song of All*, canto 642
The truthful will stand in the gaze of death and escape unharmed.
—Obsidian acolyte creed
"I've seen fog so thick you could cut it, but none that could cut me."
—Tahngarth of the *Weatherlight*
"This is our land. We will not allow eyeblights to poison its beauty."
Lumengrid, site of the Knowledge Pool, source of vedalken arcana.




The spirits of Argoth grant new life to those who repent the folly of enslaving their labors to devices.
"If only the living were so easily salvaged."
—Memnarch
Her connection to the plane restored, Nissa felt the power of Zendikar surge through her.
"This is the price of being last in the food chain. We must keep our places of beauty hidden away instead of displayed for all to see."
—Hildin, priest of Avacyn


"My power is generosity, in a way. I give my survivors an appreciation for their lives."
"Hold fast the line! Either we stop them here or we wake up in their guts!"
—Tala Vertan, Makindi shieldmate

Don't be fooled by their looks. Think of them as little knives with wings.
Displays of Voldaren bloodlust are not restricted to glamorous banquets and lavish parties.
"I got it! I got it! I—"


"Cho-Manno guides your spirit. I guide your sword."

"It's hard to fight on an empty mind."
From nothing came teeth.

"You reek of corruption," spat the knight. "Why are you even here?"



"You hit like a kobold!"


"I folded a model in paper first to test the relative tensile strength of the plates."
—Katsumasa, the Animator



"Shut the gates. In the Underrealm we will outlast the coming doom."
—Vraska
He answers questions as readily as he asks them, but his answer is always "no."
"From up here we can drop rocks and arrows and more rocks!"
"Uh, yeah boss, but how do we get down?"
"A piercing call, bright as the stars, rang out across the valley, calling the Pheres band to war, to blood and savagery."
—Luphea of Setessa, *Histories*

"For all the priceless tomes they have destroyed, one would think they would taste better."
—Davvol, Evincar of Rath

"This fight belongs to us all."
A hiss before dying.

"Grease up a firecannon good and proper with dinosaur-liver oil, and it'll shoot just about anything."
It is not the absence of fear that makes a warrior, but its domination.
Clash of sword and cry of beast fall mute when angels sound the call to prayer.

The throng flitted from castle to castle, leaving a trail of star-crossed love, damaging rumors, and missing heirlooms in their wake.

"By the time I got there, the heart had stopped. Fortunately, I was able to replace it with something better."
Gold buys death. Death earns gold.

Venturing beneath the desert sands, you've discovered an alien power pulsing with inconceivable energy.

"Words lie. People lie. The land tells the truth."
Each Stormscape apprentice must hand-raise and train an owl before attaining the rank of master.








"My time will come, when every soul will bask in my glory and obey my law."
"Our feeble villages and tiny encampments stand only at the whim of the Roil."
—*The Invokers' Tales*
"The light of my master's guidance traverses all boundaries, even those separating life and death."
Beebles are frequently hurled against stone surfaces at high speed but always zing back into the air with a giggle.


"Yawgmoth," Freyalise whispered as she set the bomb, "now you will pay for your treachery."


Carefully following the thaumatic compass Bolas had given her, Vraska blundered straight into the River Heralds' trap.
Alara's burning blood cannot be contained by mere earth and stone.
"Those who seize power must have the means to hold it."
—Queen Marchesa

"The maze seems to fight us at every turn, resisting our efforts to solve it."
—Niv-Mizzet
Vedalken weapons sold to outsiders are as dependable as the vedalken themselves.


He makes his home on the tallest mountain in Sejiri, where the vista is as endless as his patience.
"When a sliver of this breed enters the hive, the others claw each other in frenzied fits, thereby ensuring their rapid growth."
—Rukarumel, field journal

When Sarevok's deception was unmasked, the cheering crowd erupted into an outraged mob.

As they awakened, the Eldrazi reasserted their mastery over all of Zendikar's natural forces.

Occasionally, members of the Institute of Arcane Study acquire a taste for worldly pleasures. Seldom do they have trouble finding employment.

A few aetherborn have discovered a way to sustain their own existences at the cost of an insatiable hunger for the life essence of other beings.


"My army took centuries to gather," remarked Urza. "Yavimaya seems to conjure hers out of thin air."
When defeat is near and guidance is scarce, all eyes look in one direction.

Conjured from the bowels of hell, the fiery wall forms an impassable barrier, searing the soul of any creature attempting to pass through its terrible bursts of flame.


The progeny of the Maelstrom shows no allegiance—and no mercy—to any of the five shards.
"Lemurs? Is that all? Finally, something harmless . . ."
—Norin the Wary
The bell's chime heralds the rise of the unhallowed from the grave and the fall of their victims into the earth.
"The curse is broken."

"There are many kinds of duty, and mine is to see our world grow and endure."


"Light up the dark to find your way, and the dark may seek you out."
—Zalin the Gutter Bard




"Removing the encumbrance of useless brain tissue grants several advantages: a slight increase in mobility, a response of revulsion and horror from the enemy, and, in the case of large specimens, room for passengers."
—Zul Ashur, lich lord

"Roil tide! Roil tide! Tie yourselves down!"


"A horrible sight, yes, but the sounds . . . Its twanging tendons and grinding gears are almost musical."
—Brudiclad, Telchor engineer




"The soul of this world is gone, Nissa, and I would gladly kill it again."
—Nicol Bolas
"When history becomes too mournful, even good souls may choose to forget."
—Shalai, voice of Plenty
"After his death, monks spent ten years transcribing the tattoos from Reki's body and gathering stories from those who spoke with him. Thus the volume you hold was written."
—*The History of Kamigawa*
Professor Onyx urged the twins to prepare for the dark mage Extus, sounding very much like someone familiar with the rise of tyrants.
For sale: Complete wizard's library. Rare scrolls, grimoires, and works of ancient spellcrafting! Slightly abridged.


You may break her shield, but you'll never break her spirit.
Mklthd had always hated crowds . . . and they had always hated him.
It spilled the blood of one elder dragon. In Gideon's hands, it may yet taste another's.
The book shrieks horribly until its cover is opened, granting the spirit inside a moment's rest from the painful stirrings of the book's contents.



Even the clouds bend themselves to Memnarch's will, eager to swallow those who oppose him.
Like a loaded cannon—point and shoot.




"If they can't take the hail, they'd better stay home."
—Arna Kennerüd, skycaptain
"YOU MUST BE THIS TALL TO RIDE. YOU HAVE TEN SECONDS TO COMPLY."
Atarka conquered Qadat, the Fire Rim, long ago, winning over its efreet with a promise to spread the glory of fire to all the world.











"Sad what passes for a dragon among the Silumgar."




"Forget your human ancestors. You're part of my family now."

To renew the land, plow the land. To destroy the land, do nothing.
—Druids' saying
The Taskmaster knows that there is no cure for the common Kobold.
"Don't trust your eyes, for mages are skilled in deception. Trust only in your faith. It will wipe everything clean."
—Lila, Erunian priest
Only the Eldrazi mind thinks in the warped paths required to open the hedrons and tap the power within.



Hatred outlives the hateful.


A pit yawned open, a column of oily smoke arose, and a towering form hissed, "I accept this offering."

"Think of them not as failures but as works in progress."
—Volrath
What's merely a home for the nautilus can become exquisite jewelry in the hands of Saprazzan artisans.
"Tread upon the meek, and they shall wound your feet and make you crawl."
—Asmira, Holy Avenger


Even the most skilled of modern mages only partially understand the Conch Horn's awesome powers.
It evades Phyrexians by hiding in the spaces between seconds.
"Froggy fighter at the gate.
Draw your sword and meet your fate."
—Traditional children's rhyme




There is always a toll to pay for passage.
I tell you, there was so many arrows flying about you couldn't hardly see the sun. So I says to young Angus, "Well, at least now we're fighting in the shade!"
"Tourach's power was such that his followers deified him after his death."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. II*


"I've seen death before. My mother succumbing to illness, my comrades bleeding on the battlefield . . . But I'd never seen anything as dreadful as that."
—Taani, berserker of Etlan


Hidetsugu held over a dozen oni in blood oath. At his touch, rocks scorched. At his word, cities burned.

With or without witnesses, the suns continued their prismatic dance.
"Told you I had friends."
The goblin word for "flying" is more accurately translated as "falling slowly."





"The family is a tree, and in times of need, every branch can be a weapon."
—Daghatar the Adamant
"If one gets in your chimney, you're going to need a long wick and a barrel of bangstuff to get it out."
—Hob Heddil






"Fire. Air. Water. These elements spread, filling in the spaces they are not. But earth is implacable like a sullen child."
—Jestus Dreya, *Of Elements and Eternity*
The scent of cooked flesh lingers in the charred landscape of Tarkir.

"It is not your time. The Legion still needs your blade."


Rhoxes who live long enough to retire from war lend support with their extensive knowledge of combat injuries.
"Sometimes I snare the unexpected, but I know its purpose will be revealed in time."



The overconfident are the most vulnerable.
The necrogen may have taken its sight, but it can still taste the fear of its prey.
Professors scrambled to push the mage hunters back, leaving the heart of Strixhaven undefended.

The wills of mortals shift as the tide ebbs and flows.

"Dear brother, it's sweet that you have chosen to share your toys with Ludevic, but I too have found some new playmates."
—Ghoulcaller Gisa
As the phantom flies overhead, the city of Vhelnish screams in silence.
"Precise, clean cuts. No one saw anything. Again. Tag the report with my code and file it."
—Lavinia
Swirling eddies of ash hide crumbling cliffs, treacherous drops, and the slavering maws of unknown evils.
As the Simic released more of their krasis experiments, they required new habitats, always at the expense of the locals.
The safewright Talara protects a delicate woodland waterfall. She has vowed to send wave after wave of warriors to slay any who would dare disturb its beauty.
"Did you have a nice nap?"
—Liliana Vess
"Angels? My feelings remain unchanged."
—Liliana Vess

Sometimes the greatest strength is the strength of conviction.
Although it looks like a game, business around the table is deadly serious.
"I always say, 'If it's breathing, it's lying.' Luckily my friend here does neither."
—Lord Xander



"I'll make ice chimes of your bones."
They've been probation officers, army grunts, bounty hunters—anything to make their district safer.

"Oathbreaker, I cast you out!"
"The land grows only where the kami will it."
—Dosan the Falling Leaf
"It seemed an easy thing, to step into the nothingness, to fall, to die. But then, for an instant, I saw it, eyes filled with endless sorrow, and I turned back to face my pain."
—Snow-Fur, kitsune poet
"Until my last breath, I will defend the realm."




"Beauty to the eye does not always translate to the touch."
—Naimah, Femeref philospher
"May the steel of your blade match the steel in your soul."

"Selecting the proper beeble is the key to a good sauté. The pinker the fur and the heartier the yelp, the more succulent the beeble will be when you pop it in your mouth."
—Asmoranomardicadaistinaculdacar, *The Underworld Cookbook*
When the hive must feed, every appendage becomes an additional mouth.

Though he eventually came to despise Tocasia, Mishra listened well to her lessons on clarity of purpose. Unlike his brother, he focused his mind on a single goal.

When you rule by fear, your greatest weakness is one who's no longer afraid.


Shivan inhabitants are hardened to fire, so their predators have developed alternative weaponry.



"The seas are vast, but the skies are even more so. Why be content with one kingdom when I can rule them both?"
Mercadian elitism is reinforced daily by physical position: their neighbors are literally beneath them and are treated accordingly.
Much to Multani's chagrin, Rofellos gleefully tutored Yavimaya's elves on the rudest and most vulgar words spoken in Llanowar.


"Fair? At what point in our negotiations did you convince yourself my goal was to be fair?"
The warriors fought against the paralyzing waves until even their thoughts froze in place.
"A regression to ancient forms? A glimpse of future evolutions? Or a fleeting alteration of the present?"
—Vorel of the Hull Clade

Sacrificial rites take place before an audience of cheering cultists, each begging to be the next on stage.



She bears the greatest burden of all: that of knowing.

The most sensational plays send everyone home breathless.

Hunter and hunted both died thinking they had outwitted the other.
"No sooner had the beast collapsed under the blows of Takeno's sword than the earth rippled and the creature rose again to face him."
—*Battle of Akagi River: A Survivor's Tale*
They came from all walks of life, from every part of Zendikar, and they returned with one unifying cause.
The Skoti owe their immortality to the elixir, and the manner of its creation is their most closely guarded secret.
So great is his certainty that mere facts cannot shake it.
Maestros agents can lie low in high style at the opulent Shadow Hostel.


It has a hundred thousand extinctions to avenge.
"Renata launched a dozen arrows into the minotaur's thick hide, but the monster didn't slow its charge. The fury of Mogis was upon it."
—Luphea of Setessa, *Histories*

Kruphix hid the most dire prophecies about humankind where humans would never find them and tritons wouldn't care to read them.
Fortunately for it, Mirrodin is a plane without salt.
Once he'd worked out which end of the thing the paint came from, he was promoted to shirt duty.
Deserted, but not uninhabited.



Their war forgotten, the nations of Bant stood united in the face of a common threat.




With Phyrexia's victory at hand, each sect began perfecting its vision.



Kaladesh's illicit marketplaces are known as "night markets," but if you know who to ask, you can find what you're looking for at any time of the day.
"A dreadful invention. What ease is there under the watchful eye of cold steel?"
—Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi Heretic


The angriest of giants are often the most skillful weaponsmiths. Their grudges fuel endless sessions at the forge, all the while growling ferociously to themselves.
The Astrotorium's Clown-Bots are programmed to delight attendees by any means necessary.


"Everybody but me—CHARGE!"


Dromoka's followers forsake blood ties so that they may join a greater family.




A slith's form and function are determined by the color of the sun under which it's born.


Iroas and Mogis are as different in appearance as they are in personality.

"The drakes are practice. We may one day need to bring down a sky swallower, or maybe even Rakdos himself."
—Korun Nar, Rubblebelt hunter
"You've begun to understand the hedrons' true purpose," said Ugin. "The Eldrazi can be imprisoned."
"And how did that work out last time?" asked Jace.
Denizens of the wilds don't always seek to harm intruders. Sometimes they simply misplace them.






"To truly know something, you must become it. The trick is to not lose yourself in the process."

"Each generation teaches the next that artifice is the enemy of natural order."
—Kaysa, elder druid of the Juniper Order

"This armor transcends the limitations of mere flesh and bone."

"Wipe your chin, child. We can't have Olivia thinking we're uncivilized."
—Anje Falkenrath


From their earliest educations, the brothers had known that no human contrivance could stand against the true masters of Dominia.

Its colors entrance aggressors, directing their violence.


Not since the days of Pashalik Mons have the Rundvelt goblins been so united or effective.
A small band of elves pledged many years ago to avoid the Edges of Forgetting. They have remained hidden until now.

"The Simic come from the cold slow depths. How could they understand the fire in a wild heart?"
—Kroshkar, Gruul shaman

Once a welcoming hub for explorers, Affa became a place of guarded tongues and quick defenses.
"I'll see your three dragons and raise you two fists!"

Greven *il*-Vec lifted Vhati off his feet. "The fall will give you time to think on your failure."


"Die. But die knowing that your pathetic life will yield a great bounty for me."
—Zul Ashur, lich lord
"Is it wrong to go straight for what you want? Sneaking is for cats and goblins."
—Tahngarth of the *Weatherlight*
Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.
Urza tried to rule the air, but Gaea taught him that she controlled all the elements.



"No doubt the arbiters would put you away, after all the documents are signed. But I will have justice now."
@-Alovnek, Boros guildmage


Once he'd worked out which end of the thing was sharp, he was promoted to guard duty.
"Unwelcome thoughts crowd my mind. Are they my own madness, or the whispers of another?"
—Sarkhan Vol


To the Golgari, anything buried is treasure.
"Let the wild in. Channel its strength."
—Freyalise

"And when this land is wasted, where will we go?"
—Thalakos lament
"Starnheim is closed to you, coward."
The throng flitted from castle to castle, leaving a trail of star-crossed love, damaging rumors, and missing heirlooms in their wake.

"A vizier's dish, best served drenched in honey and almonds."
—Suq'Ata royal recipe
"There will come a day so dark you will pray for death. On that day your prayers will be answered."
—Minaldra, the Vizag Atum





Cross the eyes of a hammerhead and you'll dot its teeth.
Mardu riders' greatest fear is that a battle might end before their weapons draw blood.

"Our people are torn by infighting. Until the two sides reconcile, our laws can carry no meaning."
While most power is used for ordinary, everyday tasks, one shouldn't underestimate its potential for the extraordinary.



"Gix doesn't want a people to rule but puppets to entertain his madness."
—Xantcha, Phyrexian outcast

"This is a sacred duty. Master Beleren's trust has bought an eternity of my loyalty."
The Coalition was more than just treaties and alliances: it was the soul of a world rising up against the invading tide.
"Respect the wilds? Certainly. Fear them? No."
"There is nothing you can do that I cannot simply deny."
—Ertai, wizard adept



At the sight of the thing the calamari vendor's eyes went wide, but from fear or avarice none could tell.

Dressed to suppress.

"Nobody stands in one place better than a mogg."
—Tahngarth

Legend has it that the world was hatched from a dingus egg.

"Look at her, once filled with innocence. Death has a way of wringing away such . . . deficiencies."
—Savra

Without a word, Gerrard and Sisay ran deeper into the mountain. Neither of them intended to leave Mercadia without the *Weatherlight* and its crew.



The greatest masters of the craft abandon tools altogether, shaping metal with hand and mind alone.
"I watched its blade swing through me, but I was hollow, empty. I saw its face contort in rage but could not hear it snarl."
—Klattic, Boros legionnaire




One of the forest's best protectors is the forest itself.

There are many ruins, but there used to be many more.


The histories speak of two feuding rulers whose deaths were celebrated and whose monuments symbolized the end of their wars. In truth they were peaceful lovers, their story lost to the ages.


Entry 434: There's more to Avacyn's madness . . .


No duelist is without equal in Paliano.

"My 'condition' is a trial. The weak are consumed by it. The strong transcend it."
—Sorin Markov


A savage cry with the power to shatter minds.


What is a sliver of one's soul compared to unimaginable wealth?
"Hope shall be the blade that severs our bonds."

"You are all part of my pride. As long as I live, I will protect you."






Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.

The sky rang with the cries of armored seraphs, and the darkness made a tactical retreat.
Some say the fountain's waters are the first rains that fell over Dominaria.




Oketra's closest viziers are known as her chosen, though others may have a better claim to that moniker.
"Hone the knife and mourn the least. Three chimes to sound the sweet, grim feast."
—Barrow witch incantation


"Come. Bring your brothers. Tonight, you feast on living flesh."
—Jadar, ghoulcaller of Nephalia
"Why keep such trinkets? They only add weight to your travels."
As the hand closed, there was first terror, then numbness, and finally nothingness.

He rose from the graf for every cobbler, tanner, and fool who'd been slaughtered in the parish—and they rose and shambled after him.



"Who said there are no assurances in life? I assure you this is going to hurt."

Once a famed hunter and packmaster, now a renegade seeking his own path.


"How can you claim the gods are merciless when they robbed the snake of its limbs to give the other creatures a sporting chance?"
—Hakim, Loreweaver
During seasonal thaws, the wurms slough their skin against trees to promote growth.
"May you decrease like coal upon the hearth . . . Evaporate like water in a pail, Become as little as a linseed-grain . . . And so diminish that you come to nothing."
—Anglo-Saxon curse

"'Ownership' is such a gray area."



"Unwavering and loyal, they represent stability in uncertain times."
—Rem Karolus, Slayer of Angels

There are only two rules of tactics: never be without a plan, and never rely on it.



Archmage attacks are little more than annoyances to Kalamax.
"This creature is inadequate. Send it to the splicers for innovation."
—Malcator, Executor of Synthesis
Vengeance is a dish best served twice.
There is always a toll to pay for passage.

Its last life is spent tormenting your dreams.

When it snared a passing cockatrice, its own soul darkly doubled.

"In a world of untruths, the living lie rules."
—Oracle *en*-Vec


Countless delights drift on the surface while dark schemes run below.

"I got it! I got it! I—"
"Try, if you must."

For wisdom's sake, it was built high to gaze on all things. For glory's sake, it was built high as a testament of power. For strength's sake, it was built high to repel all attacks.

Those who worship the great gargantuans could hardly be expected to fight with a subtle weapon.

"By order of Consulate Mandate 482, I am required to detain you, citizen."


An audience of one with the malice of thousands.

"The most reliable omen of a future hellion attack is a past hellion attack."
—Spear-Tribe teaching
"The secret is simply to know what you're going to do before you even see the possibilities."
—Porlema'ko, mind mage
Goblins are eager to follow orders, especially when those orders involve stealing, hurting, annoying, eating, destroying, or swearing.


The haunted blade shattered, and the geist drifted gratefully to the Blessed Sleep.





"Death—an outmoded concept. We sleep, and we change."
—Sitrik, birth priest

"I believed in a beautiful god. But this is the true face of the divine."
—Ayli, Kamsa cleric
"Need a hammer? Gotta get your fix? I know a guy."
Rhox monks are dedicated to spiritual growth and learning, and most bear the sigils of many students. However, they do not gladly suffer fools or those who disagree with their carefully wrought dogma.

"They are my bulwark against the Terror. They are the Defenders of Humanity. They are my Space Marines."
—The Emperor of Mankind

"Will the future be brighter?" asked the girl. Rielle smiled. "I will teach you how to make it so."
"By Avacyn's decree, we shall cleanse these relics of their demonic past."
Another piece of a nefarious puzzle.
The first satyr to wake after a revel must search for the site of the next one.
Grixis is a world where the only things found in abundance are death and decay. Corpses, whole or in part, are the standard currency among necromancers and demons.

"In the market for an alternative, friend?"
A mastodon's path always leads to an oasis.


"The monster was gaining on them. Twice it had found them. There was only one place left to hide."
—*Tales of the Fae*
"Do not mistake your lofty vantage point for safety."
—Shaper Tuvasa

Most creatures grow out of their baby teeth, but sabertooth wyverns grow into theirs.

A ghoulcaller's playground.



It's raining rats and moggs.
"And I thought *I* had a big sweet tooth."
—Gannet, Skysail zoologist









When defeat is near and guidance is scarce, all eyes look in one direction.
"Each creature holds a solution to a problem, a lesson to be learned."
—Oviya Pashiri, sage lifecrafter
"Who needs imaginary friends when you've got dead ones?"


Days of planning. Weeks of building. Months of perfecting. Seconds of smashing.



Hot wind whipped up as if the weather itself wanted to fight Phyrexians.



"Life always starts small. Only time will tell what heights it may reach."




Dogs beg. Cats lay claim.
A few weed-choked gourd patches are all that remain of the proud, thriving farms that once blanketed the province.
"Undefeated in battle, she is the shining future our empire deserves."
—Huatli
Its form never rests, propelled by some undetectable gale from beyond the gloom.
"The rules are clear. If you want to leave, you need only convince another to take your place."
A flickering beacon of righteous corruption.
"I've lit most everything on fire—trees, rocks, even the water. Now it's time to burn the clouds."
"All I require is faith, loyalty, obedience, trust, and complete and utter devotion."

A symbol of ambition in ruthless times.


To Liliana's surprise, the cost of betraying Bolas did not fall on her.

Peace to all. Peace be all.
—Great Hall floor inscription





"Do as I think, not as I do."
—Jace Beleren


It shambled from the cloud of ash and bone dust, undeterred by its own extinction.

Elementals are ideas given form. This one is the idea of "smashitude."

He collects the precious metals, and then converts the rest to propellant.












Solitude drove the old hermit insane. Now he only keeps company with those he can catch.



The viashino had learned how to operate the rig through trial and error—mostly error.
"How fascinating it is to watch the machinations of one's own mind play themselves out."
—Volrath

"Changes far greater than the turning of the leaves await us at season's end."
—Colfenor, the Last Yew
"We pray to Avacyn on high. On snow-white wings fearless you fly. Keep safe our souls. Keep safe our lives. May angels watch us from the skies."
—Children's prayer
For the first time in his life, Grakk felt a little warm and fuzzy inside.
Her triumph came not from escaping her death, but in claiming her independence.

"Beings of the rifts are not natural. No longer will these abominations tread upon the body of Gaea."


"They seek to break us. Let us show them our strength!"

"They're easy enough to squish, but they're a pain to wash out of a workbench."
—Tergel, goblin explosioneer

She watches over the city just as Serra watches over all.

It teaches *you* to play dead.

"'Davvol, blast those elves.' 'Davvol, transport those troops.' No one cares that today is my birthday."

Think of it as a butcher knife with wings.
"Sit. Fetch. Devastate."
The only feeling worse than not knowing the answer is the certainty that you once did.



People only say "I'm sure it was nothing" when they're sure it was something.
"Oh, you fellas are going to love the lockup. Excellent gruel. Very low ceilings."
—Libuse, Boros sergeant
His words poured forth on waves of golden light, scouring all fear from his audience's hearts and minds.
Legend has it that Serpents used to be bigger, but how could that be?
Sometimes the wings of fallen dragons refuse to give up the sky.

A master of tactics, the Lord of Atlantis makes his people bold in battle merely by arriving to lead them.

"...There was no trace/ Of aught on that illumined face..." —Samuel Coleridge, "Phantom"


In every swirl of the tide, it sees the awakening of things yet to come.

These nimble sparrows, not often seen, delight in tricking the pangolins that wander the forest.

Perfect justice in service of a perfect will.



Beneath crashing waves lies an ocean of secrets waiting to be explored.
A new bird of prey—one that hunts sentience.
It withers fruit and flesh alike.



The renowned warchiefs of Pheres Band fight with the might of minotaurs and the sagacity of sphinxes.
The traditional kings of the jungle command a healthy respect in other climates as well. Relying mainly on their stealth and speed, Savannah Lions can take a victim by surprise, even in the endless flat plains of their homeland.


She sticks to her chosen master closer than their own shadow.
"Best bury them right. We don't want any gruesome encores."
—Constable Trosk

The goblins tracked the hystrodon with much stealth and cunning. Then they were eaten with much pain and yelling.
"They encircled our patrol with the stealth of snakes, corralling us like livestock."
—Merrik Aidar, Benalish patrol



Some Krovikans find strength in the ears and eyes of their victims and wear such fetishes into battle.
"Ludevic's laboratory is a veritable wonderland. I have never felt so inspired."
—Stitcher Geralf

When the rebels couldn't breach the castle to kill Lalor the Obstinate, they tried a more internal approach to depose the pretender king.
"Don't you agree that mogg intellects are improved by zombification?"
—Lord Dralnu
The Rakdos make sure their victims remember their pain—or at least give up a little bit of their sanity in order to forget.
Just as the evil ones approached to slay Justina, she cast a great spell, imbuing her weapons with her own life force. Thus she fulfilled the prophecy: "In the death of your savior will you find salvation."

The stronghold of Theros's light.


The most frightening storms are those not woven by nature's hand.

Not to be. That is the answer.

Sisay had been restored to her place on the ship, the Legacy had been recovered, and the *Weatherlight* was sailing home to Dominaria. Gerrard focused on the debts he'd settled . . . and on those he'd soon collect.

Cao Cao was more concerned with capabilities than lineage. He excelled at recruiting and retaining men of talent to serve him.

"The beasts of the wild are my senses. It is through their eyes that all knowledge shall come to me."


It's hard enough to find your way through uncharted wilderness when you can see the tip of your nose.




The desert is a voracious beast, devouring both flesh and stone.


"See that no one enters or leaves New Prahv today. And notify me at once of any Planeswalker activity."
—Dovin Baan

Each day at dusk the birds above the canopy grow silent.
As war raged on, the young mages became more direct in their tactics, often at great cost.


Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.
The gourd carving was supposed to take place *after* the feast.

She arrived like a meteorite, and the enemy fell in a shock wave of holy vengeance.
"The secret entrance should be near."
"The cooling climate forced the Elves to experiment with new food sources."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. I*



"Obey!"

Many an inventor has collapsed under the pressure to create a flawless design.

There are laws against it, but the dead have no one to complain to and the living are too frightened to investigate.
He always drops a little trinket into the bay as thanks to the merfolk who taught him all his best tricks.


Pavement ripped like paper as the ancient kami awoke from her long slumber beneath the city.






"Root and wing, claw and sword; this will be a memorable stand, indeed."
—Lyra Dawnbringer


A full coffin is like a full coffer—both are attractive to thieves.


It started as a mere drop of water. The Magic Mirror crystallized it into much more.


Squawks was quick to establish the social pecking order.






His feet buckled the ground, his hands cut the wind to ribbons, and he was gone.
Some view Domri's unlikely ascent as a sign of Ilharg the Raze-Boar's imminent return.


Dina raised her cup to Killian's lips, and for the first time in his life, he knew compassion.
'Twas in the bogs of Cannelbrae My mate did meet an early grave 'Twas nothing left for us to save In the peat-filled bogs of Cannelbrae.
Serum was once derived from Mirrodin's blinkmoths, offering visions of inspiration. Now it is pulled from Phyrexian inkmoths, yielding visions of perfection.
It's easy to believe you're a god when you're twice as powerful as everyone else.

"Rangers not trained by the Elves just aren't the same."
—Lucilde Fiksdotter, Leader of the Order of the White Shield



The pulsing heat of the midday Sun burns in the Lion's eye.
—Stone inscription, source unknown



To an akki warrior, gravity is the direction of the nearest unsmashed face.

"Diametrically opposing energies in self-sealed plasmodermic bubbles make great pets!"
—Trivaz, Izzet mage
"The penalty for idleness is death. The penalty for disputing the penalty is death."
Beauty is beyond law.
Riders chase the fading light recklessly through the mountains, desperate for one last glimpse of day.
"From down here we can make the whole wall collapse!"
"Uh, yeah, boss, but how do we get out?"



The maximum recommended speed warning system snapped off years ago, but they hadn't encountered problems yet.

"To empty your mind is to fill your grave."
—Lat-Nam teaching


Between the thunderous footfalls of Naya's behemoths lie moments of perfect quiet.



"United, our roar will level mountains."
As the outsiders invaded Bant, soldiers who once saw sigils as the highest marks of glory began to see the scars of battle as tokens of equal worth.
"Many must die for the one who should not have perished."
"I don't suppose we could teach them to throw the cursed things?"
—Ivra Jursdotter







"I'll climb down soon. Don't worry, it's just a thundersto—"
—Former elvish scout

Some say magic was first practiced by women, who have always felt strong ties to the land.


"My heart is not mine, it is Belzenlok's. All hearts are his, and all blood."
—"Rite of Belzenlok"


"Words lie. People lie. The land tells the truth."






All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.
"The treasure in my mind is greater than any worldly glory."
"The Autumn Willow cannot be everywhere at once—that's what her grandchildren are for."
—Gulsen, Abbey Matron
Each crusader bonds with a griffin fledgling while still a child, and the two grow up as siblings.

"Those dragons grow fast. For a while they feed on squirrels and goblins and then suddenly you're missing a mammoth."
—Hurdek, Mazar mammoth trainer
"Only those who give the dragons the respect they deserve may bear our title."


"I love lightning! It's my best invention since the rock."
—Toggo, goblin weaponsmith

"The seas are vast, but the skies are even more so. Why be content with one kingdom when I can rule them both?"
The dwarves call their quicksilver techniques "improvisational weaponsmithing."


Elder mystics take their vow of silence so seriously that they impose it on any who enter their presence.

Squee: "What's that?" Ertai: "It's a magical book." Squee: "Am I smart enough ta use it?" Ertai: "You could say that."





One fateful night, bright-eyed and bushy-tailed, they rose.
The purest virtue burns brighter than the sun and hotter than dragonfire.

"So many oppose us, but we are the reed that bends without breaking."


"The changing kind suffers as we do. We must join as one to quench our tyrants!"



"A great leader must have the wisdom to know what's right and the courage to make it so."
"Her voice is insight, piercing and true."
—Ixidor, reality sculptor
Fields of battle turn to fields of grain.



"Be fearless, for a furious rebirth awaits you."
—Nylea, god of the hunt
A barbarian's heart pounds with the fury of a prisoner, threatening at any moment to break the bars of its cage.


Such cloaks are in high demand both by assassins and by those who fear them.

"I never thought I'd spend my life fighting. I'm a maker, not a destroyer."
The vedalken interrogate all intruders—once the hoverguards are done with them.
Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.


"Kjeldor's borders are secure, and its citizens are prepared to take up arms in defense of their families."
—King Darien of Kjeldor
Proud Alkmenos, who would not bow to Erebos in death, is now bowed by his own hubris for all eternity.





"What's got two arms, one wing, and no brains?"
—Ghitu riddle





As it spins, dead voices shriek in an ever-increasing cacophony, rending the mind asunder.


Liliana whispered to whatever consciousness Oketra and Bontu had left. "You are the gods. He is the usurper. You know what to do."
"Without flame, there would be no iron tools, no cooked meals, no purge of old growth to make room for new."
—Brighthearth creed

Pockets of Æther can be so foul they melt flesh from bone.

Sparkmages are performance artists of sorts, but pain is the price of admission.
Options will cost you, but a lack of them will cost you even more.
"Ihsan, the weak. Ihsan, the fallen. Ihsan, the betrayer. He has brought shame to the Serra Paladins where none existed before. May his suffering equal his betrayal."
—Baris, Serra Inquisitor
First one, then a second, then a third of the ivory towers fell to the invaders, who moved in a circle around the city like an apocalyptic clock.

"The scourge of Skyshroud is airborne once more."
—Oracle *en*-Vec
"Our lives are woven together like the trees' branches over our heads, forming a canopy that protects us all."
In the autumn, she casts her seeds across the streets below, and come spring, her children rise in service to the Conclave.
"Curse this glorious golden weight!"




"This is just my warm-up."

"It is finished. Now the real work can begin."
—Tezzeret
"My battle cry reaches ears far keener than yours."
—Saidah, Joraga hunter



"We will ingest and remake this world in our image, not unlike some admirable designs I have seen here."
—Vorinclex, Voice of Hunger

It is not unusual for a single family of coral merfolk to spend centuries carefully guiding the growth of the reefs where they make their home.
It is telling of the vedalkens' culture that they trust human couriers more than their own comrades.




After years of world-bending machinations, Bolas's triumph is at hand.
"The foot stone is connected to the ankle stone, the ankle stone is connected to the leg stone . . . ."
—Song of the Artificer
The cage is a crucible for the rage that builds inside, refining it into something pure and terrible.
Will's quick thinking meshed with Rowan's raw power to bring down the Blood Avatar.
The Eldrazi rampaged across Zendikar in a tide of chittering, heaving flesh.
Her given name has been lost in the mists of time. Legend says that her silent vigil will one day be ended by the one who, pure of heart and spirit, calls out that name again.
Its flight sets the sky itself on fire.
Taborax's cultists are the latest in a long history of beings who have desired to see Zendikar torn to pieces.
". . . some sort of giant lizard-bat thing. Yeah, we shot it. No, nothing to clean up."
@-Archelle, chief exterminator


"Oh, they scream, right enough, and plead, too—but the Baron keeps no mercy in his vault of horrors."
—Zeki, Reef Pirate
It follows the green sun over Mirrodin's surface, spinning massive webs of whispersilk as it goes.

"Order up! Ooze aspic and jellied anurid eyes!"





"It saddens me to lose a source of inspiration. This one seemed especially promising."
—Ashiok
"If I am to die, let it be a hero's death!"









"There is great wisdom in rushing headlong into combat . . . if you're prepared."
—Kenjek, captain of the Thousand Swords
Theologians now believe the Ancestor was another divine form of Serra.
Want all, lose all.
—Zhalfirin aphorism

"Do not linger in such places, child. There the gwyllions dance. If they find you, you will join in their revels for eternity."
—Talara, elvish safewright

"We've merged your life essence with that of several creatures at once. You're welcome."
—Speaker Trifon

Too often, some self-described genius comes up with a "labor-saving device" that ends up creating far more work.
While it possesses potent venom, the Giant Spider often chooses not to paralyze its victims. Perhaps the creature enjoys the gentle rocking motion caused by its captives' struggles to escape its web.
Before a woman marries in the village of Sursi, she must visit the land of the Mesa Pegasus. Legend has it that if the woman is pure of heart and her love is true, a Mesa Pegasus will appear, blessing her family with long life and good fortune.

"The Vanished must have sent it from beyond to aid us in this struggle."
—Kessla, Sylvok shaman
"Go! Show them your fury!"


"You know those seedpods cluttering the eastern approach? I've got an idea . . . ."
—Calle, Urzan sergeant

She's brilliant, if a bit overbearing.
Born from the slaughter of an entire army, it bears the wrath of a hundred souls.
"There is no shame in solitude. The lone Knight may succeed where a hundred founder."
—Arna Kennerüd, Skyknight
After centuries of labor, its creations outnumber those they were to mimic.

Sparkmages are performance artists of sorts, but pain is the price of admission.

All of Zendikar's beings sense the upheaval that accompanies the Eldrazi.


The Kalonian word for "ammunition" is the same as the word for "bait."
Goblins' eager curiosity leads them to scavenging, petty theft, and the rigging of sleek pirate ships. Some stop at scavenging.






They all thought her dream was just pie in the sky.
"Living scarecrows make a mockery of the natural order. Dead ones make fine hats."
Many an inventor has collapsed under the pressure to create a flawless design.
A focal point for time rifts, Foriys contends simultaneously with foes both new and old.


They sneer at the terrestrial dangers found on peaks and shores, eager to prove themselves against new and even mightier foes.
Instructors at the Kasarna training grounds are capable healers in case their students fail to grasp the subtleties of combat.

"Clever folk build their homes near cloudcrowns. If a hawk or even just a faerie tries to swoop in, it'll get swatted from here to Cloverdell."
—Calydd, kithkin farmer
Not even the tallest tree stands a chance against the underside of a dinosaur's foot.
A beacon of prosperity to some, a shadow of oppression to others.

As pure mana flooded across the shards, it brought a sense of unity even to Jund's vicious food chain.

Every branch a crossroads, every vine a swift steed.


Ground into the footprints of the ravaging herd were clumps of salt from Benalia, moss from Llanowar, dust from Hurloon, and ash from as far as Urborg.

The Rakdos are unique in designing torture equipment they can operate while "suffering" alongside their victims.

The tribe was as strong as his longing, their territory as vast as his isolation. The changeling knew he had found a home, and a form.
"Let my hate fuel your fury."



The intricate dynamics of Rundvelt goblin affairs are often confused with anarchy. The chaos, however, is the chaos of a thundercloud, and direction will sporadically and violently appear. Pashalik Mons and his raiders are the thunderhead that leads in the storm.


"Your artillery will burn itself out before I allow my focus to waver."
Elspeth's squires do not seek advancement. For them, no knightly glory could surpass the glory of serving their champion.




"Books can be replaced; a prize student cannot. Be patient."
—Urza, to Barrin

"Margaret has traveled with me to the end of the world and back."
—Hewen Frit, merchant
Chasms of dueling energies course within her.
"Flee all you like. The further you run the more firmly I feel your heartbeat."


"An immense river of oblivion is sweeping us away into a nameless abyss."
—Ernest Renan, *Souvenirs d'Enfance et de Jeunesse*
A single festercreep isn't alone. It's already an infestation.
Nature doesn't walk.

It harmonizes with the essence of its master.
"Strike those abominations down. Let their names rot with their remains."
—General Kudro
"The treasure in my mind is greater than any worldly glory."
The boggarts gorged themselves until their bellies glowed.


"Except our own thoughts, there is nothing absolutely in our power."
—Rene Descartes, *Discourse on Method*
"A flash of the lightning, a break of the wave, He passes from life to his rest in the grave."
—William Knox, "Mortality"
His sickle was forged in the heat of another cinder's funeral pyre.

The odds are good, but the goods are odd.


Upon finding his warehouse infested, Gaven didn't know whether to get an exterminator or an exorcist.

"A single dedicated mind can bring about the greatest destruction. That, or goblins—goblins work too."
"Follow her footsteps and she will show you the way."
—Itzama the Crested
The puffer's flesh is the deadliest in the sea—and therefore the most useful.

"I see someone tried to stop you, my pet. How delightful."
—Ghoulcaller Gisa
Abandoned tunnels and bunkers below the hive city have been secretly recolonized and dubbed the "Forbidden Cities."


She is the apex of the artificer's craft, the spirit of the divine called out of base metal.
Moth to my light, cease resistance.
Hand over the reins to your mind.
Drakes become especially voracious as they prepare for their autumn migration, hunting the city's thoroughfares from dawn to dusk.
"If it breathes, it will burn."
—Rakdos pyromancers' creed

It is everywhere you've ever been.
If you find yourself and a friend being chased by a king cheetah, you have but one chance: Trip your friend.
—Suq'Ata wisdom




". . . and furthermore . . ."




Four walls and a roof won't provide safety from that which is buried.




Sages whisper of an undiscovered natural paradise, a tropical island unspoiled by war.
"The results of our ninth inoculation were the same. The specimen was, of course, euthanized before the contagion could spread."
—Vedalken research notes



Some timelines forever fray, branch, and intermingle. Others end abruptly.

From nothing came teeth.

"The bolts of our ballistae smashed into the monstrous thing, but our hopes died in our chests as its gears continued turning."
—Sevti Mukul, The Fall of Alsoor
"Who's the crazy one now!?"
—Torgle, mountaintop boatmaker
"Cease all psychic attacks pending intel on enemy countermeasures."
—Dimir communiqué
Her webs, spun from her own hair, reach from Nyx to the mortal world and even into the Underworld.
Neurok spies carry devices that let them look a few moments into the future, giving them an almost insurmountable edge.


Some zombies are natural-reborn leaders.

"Whew. For a minute, I thought I'd forgotten the melon baller."
Elementals are ideas given form. This one is the idea of "smashitude."

"Our pyromancer's flames may not have killed them, but they bought us the time we needed."
—*The War Diaries*

"Fate is not as fixed as you might think."

All they found in the hunter's camp were tiny paw prints and a lot of blood.

"No one can fight the tide forever."
"What's got two arms, one wing, and no brains?"
—Ghitu riddle
Every grave cradles a recruit.

Memories cut from the mind can cut right back.
Destroyed in one of the first battles of the Kami War, the town of Reito still grieved.

Mantis riders know their mounts owe them no allegiance. Even a mantis ridden for years would consume a rider who loses focus for only a moment.

Blood, bone, and sinew are magnified, as is the rage that drives them. The brain, however, remains unchanged—a little bean, swinging by a strand in a cavernous, raving head.
"The dead make good soldiers. They can't disobey orders, never surrender, and don't stop fighting when a random body part falls off."
—*Nevinyrral, Necromancer's Handbook*



What could it have swallowed to grow so large?

Cephalids don't police people. They police loyalties.


Her sword sings more beautifully than any choir.

2007 Vintage Championship Winner


First, whispers of ancient days. Then, visions of things to come.


Those who seek to disturb the harmony of life will see their instruments taken from them.
In the training ground known as the Gauntlet, initiates are pushed to practice more destructive techniques.

"When it comes down to it, science is more art than science."





"Any one of us could be compromised," said Karn. "No one leaves until we know who can be trusted."




"It's easy for the innocent to speak of justice. They seldom feel its terrible power."
—Orim, Samite inquisitor
"Life is but the precursor to a long and successful death."

In Mishra's desperation to destroy his brother, he allowed Gix to destroy him instead.
New armaments, fresh provisions, and best of all, dry socks.
2012 Legacy Championship Winner
"What will not yield will be consumed."
—Ayli, high priest of the Eternal Pilgrims

"It's all a game. You shouldn't get too attached to the pieces."
"Imagine a thunderstorm that's also a tactical genius. That's him."
—Dars Gostok, Firefist captain
The foundries of Kaladesh run like clockwork under the supervision of their formidable overseers.
"The Tenth has always been my home. This city is constantly embroiled in one crisis or another, but I'm determined to protect my piece."
Some timelines forever fray, branch, and intermingle. Others end abruptly.
Orim regarded Gerrard coolly. "You are like the drake," she said, her expression unchanging. "It works hard to maintain its position, but to us it seems to glide along effortlessly. You must do the same."



"I am a dragonslayer for Lord Silumgar. There is no dragon save him whom I fear."
—Xathi the Infallible
Its precious corpses dance like puppets to attract mindless nim prey.

"Anywhere the moonlight touches—that's my garden."
The legacy of evil lives on.

After Gideon cleansed the Ninth District, none of the ganglords challenged the Boros.
The symbol of the Conclave is one of unity, with tree supporting sun and sun feeding tree.


The battle served as a grim reminder of what a final victory for the Eldrazi would mean.
Like a laughing knife, immaculate and sharp, is the Melesse.
"Our fealty to guilds dooms us. The old gods shall resurface. Our skins will wave upon the guild-masts over emptied streets, and our bones will clatter in the wind."
—Ilromov, traveling storyteller
Blood is thicker than mortar.
The blood of Krosa turns rational beings into primal forces.

"Play the song of he who delivered us. Play the song of Feroz."
—Onatah, Anaba Shaman



"We can't win a war on an empty stomach, can we?"
—Olivia Voldaren


Anything can be a weapon if you swing it hard enough.

"The Origin Query will wait. We must ensure we survive to return to it."
—Pelyus, vedalken ordinar
The shapeshifter mimics with a twin's esteem and a mirror's cruelty.
Overcoming extinction has only made the slivers more determined to live.

We had taken refuge in a small cave, thinking the entrance was too narrow for it to follow. To our horror, its gigantic head smashed into the mountainside, ripping itself a new entrance.
"I'll leave subtlety to the rich."
Once a year, Akrasa holds a joust that draws knights and their leotaus from every nation on Bant. The prize is an Akrasan sigil, but the true reward is the angel's kiss.




Though its mind has long since rotted away, it wields a sword with deadly skill.
"Holy places are no longer sanctuary from death, and death is no longer sanctuary from anything."
—Thalia, Knight-Cathar



Dry grass is tinder before the spark.


The bounty on its head is as old as Skysail, but no one has ever tried to collect.


"War destroys; nature renews."
—Jolrael, empress of beasts
Being engulfed is just the beginning of the nightmare.



For wisdom's sake, it was built high to gaze on all things. For glory's sake, it was built high as a testament of power. For strength's sake, it was built high to repel all attacks.

History is not delicately woven. It is hammered with fire.
Fire is always at the top of the food chain, and it has a *big* appetite.
"You'll never get to the top if you don't know who's already there."
—Kaya
"I have lived long, and I remember how this city once was. If my death serves to bring back the Ravnica in my memory, then so be it."


Janjeet Observatory is open to the public, but access to the adjoining laboratories is restricted.




Created to destroy Dominia, Demons can sometimes be bent to a more focused purpose.
No one in Aphetto answers a knock at the door after sundown.


Urza thought it a crusade. Xantcha knew it was a robbery.



The energies of the Temur lands are readily unleashed upon intruders.
For a smaller fee, you can pop in quickly to try on a pair of jeans.


Right before his demise, he experienced a shattering revelation.




"All rivers eventually run to the sea. My job is to sort out who goes first." —Maeveen O'Donagh, Memoirs of a Soldier

Yavimaya lights the quickest path to battle.


If at first you don't succeed, hit them again.
"In my downtime I used to paint the vistas. Now the vistas disappear faster than my downtime."


"May our foes choke upon its horns!"
—Urdnan, Dromoka warrior
Travelers bathe in the falls to wash away curses from the pucas who lurk nearby.

"Thraben is our home and I will not see it fall to this unhallowed horde."

His soul snared by an angel's curse, Crovax twisted heroism into its purest shadow.
"Finding the way once is luck. Finding the way twice takes a good map."
"Everything comes with a price. Especially revolution."
—Grenzo, dungeon warden


The willow knows what the storm does not: that the power to endure harm outlives the power to inflict it.





"No, not 'washed' ashore. It *walked* ashore."
—Shafring Hulm, beachcomber


"Ihsan, the weak. Ihsan, the fallen. Ihsan, the betrayer. He has brought shame to the Serra Paladins where none existed before. May his suffering equal his betrayal."
—Baris, Serra Inquisitor

The sky offers few hiding places.
When you have given everything, then you are capable of anything.
—Well inscription
We encountered a valley topped with immense boulders and eerie rock formations. Suddenly one of these boulders toppled from its perch and sprouted gargantuan wings, casting a shadow of darkness and sending us fleeing in terror.
Rumors quickly spread among thieves about a labyrinth without walls and a prize beyond all measures of worth.
"They cast wards, thinking it will protect them, but the biggest monsters find a way through."
—Kinnan, bonder prodigy

"One-two! One-two! One-two! One-two!"
"If Heaven has placed it in your hands, it means that the throne is destined to be yours."

"Scandal and slander are never welcome news. That's why I'm never the messenger."



Their ranks are thin, their formation is improvised, their weapons are borrowed, and you'd best get out of their way.



Slow and steady may not always win the race, but at least it doesn't end up splattered on the walls.


Its insatiable hunger quickly depletes a region of prey. It must migrate from place to place to feed its massive bulk.

Not all silences are easily broken.
"There was clearly a scream. I'm not sure if there was a mouth."
—Sachir, Akoum Expeditionary House
"It is most honorable to use every part of the animals we kill . . . especially if we use them to annihilate our enemies."
—Surrak, the Hunt Caller


"I can make you dance to my tune like a puppet, your very blood eager to obey."
—Olivia Voldaren
The mizzium-sphere array drove her mind deep into the thought field, where only the rarest motes of genius may be plucked.
"This world will not be tamed."


The greatest minds in Meletis study under the masters at the Dekatia, a renowned school of magic and philosophy.
"No fact escapes me. Why do you think you can?"
The scrollkeepers never stepped an inch away from the doors of the Great Library, not even when the ogres and their oni masters swept through Minamo.
"Vraska sees the grandeur in death but misses the hilarity."
—Judith
The druids of Mazar treat each seedcone with respect for the warrior it will become.



"Take care what you offer the ignus. Food, perhaps. Coins. But nothing flammable!"
—Stovic, village eccentric
"The strain upon the veil between worlds began to show near the end of the Kami War. Strange happenings that neither side could control lashed out across Kamigawa."
—*Observations of the Kami War*
The Inventors' Renaissance came on the heels of the Great Aether Boom, hiking demand for raw materials of every kind.
「水圧式パワーグリップは失敗だったが、その電手は大きな成功だった。」
—-首席イズマグナスの日誌
All times, all at once, collapsing to a single point: now, and what comes next.


You know it's coming when you hear the distant thunder. You know where it's been when you see the path of broken trees.

"Mana lurks in all things, even in the depths of one's own heart."
No thought but hunger. No strategy but destruction.

Mirrans were broken down and rebuilt, made to be loyal servants of the force they had fought.

More than one mage has been driven insane by the sound of the millstone relentlessly grinding away.

"The will of all, by my hand done."



Thassa's favor followed him to the Underworld. Even the waves of Nerono obeyed his will.


The universe let out a sigh of relief.
The ritual of plucking out an eye to gain future sight is but a curse that enables the living to see their own deaths.

"The first rule of politics can be learned from a lowly hornbeetle: it is wise to cultivate powerful friends."
—Pythamon, sage of Meletis
Orcs are happiest under captains who steer toward battle. Orcs of the Dire Fleet are downright jovial.



Like all forest beasts, it lives by one rule: if there's no room to grow, make some.



"My advisors recommend I let them eat you."
—Oko


Panopticon, forge of the Darksteel Eye, home of Mirrodin's keeper.
It is ancient, immense, and irresistible.









"Sometimes when I look at the ocean, I could swear it changes colors."
—Sisay
Good strategists seize opportunities. Great strategists make their own.
Shamans of Kar-Sengir claim that their sun sets because it can no longer bear the gaze of those pain-carved cliffs.
"My stride will break only against the twin points of Hazoret's spear."


"There is no time to remedy our enemies' ignorance. Blast it out of them."
—Aurelia
Whenever the Llanowar Elves gather the fruits of their forest, they leave one plant of each type untouched, considering that nature's portion.

"It's easy to get taken in by the spectacle, to enjoy a bit of naughty amusement. But make no mistake: the Cult of Rakdos is a danger."
—Tajic

The vines overgrew the construct, snapping gears and soaking up aether.
The greatest wonders of nature are found in the smallest saplings straining toward the canopy.
The nightstalkers' little game of tease-the-squirrel suddenly took an unexpected turn.
Death is only the beginning of the end.



A forest fire can rejuvenate the land, but the tar's vile consumption leaves the land forever ruined.
". . . But the time of Han had run—could he [Kongming] not tell?— / That night his master star fell past the hills. . . ."



"That Rhino would fetch us a tidy sum, Joven. Perhaps it's time to make it ours."
—Chandler
Fire is always at the top of the food chain, and it has a *big* appetite.
"Your downfall was not your ignorance, your weakness, or your hubris, but your warm blood."
—Heidar, Rimewind master
Foul-Tongue shamans draw their powers from a dark twisting of the Draconic language.

Rakdos cultists hanged her for sport in the township square. Her ghost now stands vigil at what has become known as the Tree of Weeping.

Guild leaders focused their magic on the portal scar. Where the Chamber perished, a parun could be reborn.


She represents not hope, but hope's desperate fury.

"I have a hunch we'll be seeing that one again soon."
—Ambassador Laquatus
"The soldier's path is worn smooth by the tread of many feet—all in one direction, none returning."
—Oracle *en*-Vec
Most eagles hunt small animals. The cloudchasers hunt magic.

"Quick, let's hide in the sewer!"
—Ginsi the Thief, now deceased


Tomorrow belongs to those who prepare for it today.

Harthag gave a jolly laugh as he surveyed the army before him. "Ho ho ho! Midgets! You think you can stand in my way?"


A spark of resistance against a tide of corruption.
There is always a moment of trepidation before opening a message capsule, for fear of the judgment that might be contained within.
"If the Mardu were more in tune with their beasts, they would not scare so easily."
—Jilaya, Temur whisperer
"It is useful to be able to speak to the trees. But it is truly wondrous to be able to listen to them."


"I'm here for what's mine."
There is wealth enough inside to cause the rise and the ruin of dynasties.




"Leave no scraps, lest you attract pests."
—Mardu threat
Who knows from whence the winter comes?

Leonin fight for neither god nor polis; their loyalty is to their pride.

From within its prison, the book endlessly whispers words of cruelty and spite.



"I never move the same way twice. Those rotters can't grasp chaos."
"Though I may soar, I could never fly as high as the dragons."

The weary travelers mistook the flickering lights for a candleguilde pointing the way to Harvesttide. Their relief turned to terror as lightning lit the sky.



"Training? Seeing my crops burnt to cinders was all the 'training' I needed."
"The trick is to ask when no one's listening."
—Alexi, zephyr mage




The slag-workers wasted no time in creating their own flare pulses to cleanse the area of the *incompleat*.
The pack that ambushes, eviscerates, and devours together stays together.
To become king of the Goblins, one must assassinate the previous king. Thus, only the most foolish seek positions of leadership.
"Do griffins fight to defend their homes or purely for sport?"
—Sisay
"Getting people to do what you want is merely a matter of telling them what they want to hear."

"There's no sense arguing with insanity."
—Levana, Midnight Duelist



It tracks its victims by the scent of their breath, preferring to dine on those who recently ate well.



Most monsters are more frightening when they skitter unseen in the dark. Most.
In truth, her own faith was gone, trodden in Ulamog's wake. She pantomimed the blessing in the hope that it would inspire others to continue to struggle.
"When we fail to see the beauty in every tree, we are no better than humans."
—Saelia, elvish scout
As part of their indoctrination and training, a psyker learns to focus their mental strength through a psycho-reactive staff.


Nature's strength outlives the strong.
"One little word was all it took. The world shook as I said it. The doom of Zendikar was here at last."
—Ob Nixilis





The body grows stronger under stress. The mind does not.
Jolrael's choice of homes was far better than her choice of allies.
"We've been through a lot together."
"Roil tide! Roil tide! Tie yourselves down!"
Having flesh is increasingly a liability on Mirrodin.
"Let the deception of the gods yield to the pure light of day."
—Brimaz, king of Oreskos
"Let your heartbeat be the thunder in the valley. Let your swords be the lightning on the peaks."
—Lothar Lovisason, Balduvian chieftain




Merfolk curiosity usually has dire consequences, but rarely for the merfolk.
It's most effective when it doesn't eat the ammunition.
"How truly vast this city must be, that I have traveled so far and seen so much, yet never once found the place where the buildings fail."
To prepare for the Trial of Strength, nagas shed their old skin—and with it their scars, their doubts, and their fears.



At first, the merchant state of Korlis saw no need to involve itself in the conflict between Yotia and the Fallaji. Mishra's dragon engines changed that.

Faeries hang beings that interest them as ornaments in the sky, each clique competing to outshine the prize of the last.

The most holy treasures are kept far from unclean soil.



Rerouting magic through a goblin's brain is the surest way to throw it wildly off course.




For wisdom's sake, it was built high to gaze on all things. For glory's sake, it was built high as a testament of power. For strength's sake, it was built high to repel all attacks.

To resist Thassa is to deny the rising tide.
Though the spirits' bodies were ethereal, Agnur soon learned that their blades were quite solid—and razor-sharp.





"His energy is as boundless as the powerstones'."
—Rebbec, architect of ascension
"I never question the Autumn Willow about her motives, not even when she turns people into lizards. It's her way."
—Devin, faerie noble

Funny how money and war travel so well together.
"To be honest, I'm not quite sure what's going to happen."
—Renna, Selhoff alchemist
The enraptured audience barely noticed their programs were suddenly blank.

They are Phyrexia's couriers; the messages they carry are inscribed on their slick hides.


Only the hardiest explorers survive to eat the fruit.

"Oi oi oi, me gotta hurt in 'ere Oi oi oi, me smell a ting is near, Gonna bosh 'n gonna nosh 'n da hurt'll disappear." —Traditional
The giant Tarvik dreamed that trinkets and machines caused all the world's woe. When he awoke from his troubled sleep, he took the name Tarvik Relicsmasher.
"There was a wall here. Now it is dust. A tower rose here. Now it is fallen. An army fought here. Now it is dead. A spirit was here. It is all that remains."
—Snow-Fur, kitsune poet
An old family recipe for an old family grudge.
The teeth marks add character.

Witches tempted by the power of flame gathered to study in the ruins of Spinerock Knoll.







It's all fun and games until it drops a guest. Then it's a misdemeanor.
Discovered by Femeref mages, the Null Chamber is the ultimate testing ground for the uncreative.
"The shadow travels toward the apex. I predict we will soon see the true measure of darkness."
When a werewolf changes for the first time, that first howl is said to echo through the wilds till moonset.
Moving without sound, swift figures pass through branches and undergrowth completely unhindered. One with the trees around them, the Dryads of Shanodin Forest are seen only when they wish to be.
Gerrard grinned and drew his sword. "This won't be a fair fight," he called to his crew. "They should have brought a second ship!"
"Focus an enemy's mind on what's already gone, and it's easier to take away more."
—Holux, stronghold racketeer

Don't fear the blade, fear the shadows.
"For all our lofty talk of keeping watch, we had no idea what we were getting into."
—Jace Beleren
"Day 77: The homunculus within the crystal continues to mimic my every movement. I wonder what they are writing?"
—Laboratory notes of Yzlkpk
"Each night, the sun unravels and blows away. Each day, the spiders set a new one in the sky."
—Sunseeder myth
In Lorwyn's brief evenings, the sun pauses at the horizon long enough for a certain species of violet to bloom with the fragrance of mischief.
Some fiendish mage had created a horrifying wall of living flesh, patched together from a jumble of still-recognizable body parts. As we sought to hew our way through it, some unknown power healed the gaping wounds we cut, denying us passage.

On Amonkhet, death is an ever-present part of life.
"No rest. No mercy. No matter what."



Life inspires technology, which expands life's domain.
"Why fear artifice? Is it not also of this world?"
The Fountain had stood in the town square for centuries, but only the pigeons knew its secret.
"Bottled life. Not as tasty as I'm used to, rather stale, but it has the same effect."
—Baron Sengir
"As peace should be—gentle yet unstoppable."
—Augustin IV

When the sky's rain has turned to fire, what will put it out?




"Behold! The image of the enemy and all that she has. Trust your envy, and take it."
"Heroes innovate. Villains duplicate."


"Manners are for mortals."
"Today I asked Master Dosan what the ogre mages did with the humans they sacrificed. He gave me a hard look and said to think no more on the matter."
—Meditation journal of young budoka
Cinder mystics set traps for sluaghs and other spirits of flame, seeking to extract the secrets of the fire their own hearts have lost.



From the echoes of a violent life, a terrible foe is born.
"Impossible! How could they overwhelm us? We had barricades, war elephants, … and they were barely a tenth of our number!"
—General Avitora
Though Volrath is long dead, the slivers have become everything he wanted them to be: mindless instruments of destruction and despair.


Created to destroy Dominia, Demons can sometimes be bent to a more focused purpose.

The view is rivaled only by the decadence of the decor.



It is much easier to create fire than to contain it.









The serpents' dens built into statues of Pharika serve not only to consecrate her temples, but as a hidden line of defense.
「効果を抑えるために、呪文の詳細を知る必要ありません。呪文が操作する現実の規則を再配置するだけでいいのです。」
——クアンドルクスの学部長、イムブラハム
Rainclouds don't last long in Shiv, but that doesn't stop the lightning.
"We have no need for military might. We wield two of the sharpest swords ever forged: Faith in our left hand, Wealth in our right."
—Vuliev of the Ghost Council
"Dance, and bring forth the coil! It is an umbilical to Gaea herself, fattening us with the earth's rich bounty."

The Temur believe that scaldkin are born when eruptions melt the frozen whispers of sleeping ancestors.
"You are not alone. You never were."
Awylla's salvaged dreams would finally be put to good use.

It contains the totality of Alhammarret's notes, theories, and ponderings.
The bigger the hand, the higher the price.






Urza tried to rule the air, but Gaea taught him that she controlled all the elements.
"When the air burns, only death breathes deep."
—Bogardan mage

"The hive shimmered, and its walls seemed a living mirror."
—Hastric, Thunian scout
"The next one who tells me to relax and curl up by a fire is dead."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight*
"Bend with the storm, then reply in kind."

"They fall for it every time."
"A regression to ancient forms? A glimpse of future evolutions? Or a fleeting alteration of the present?"
—Vorel of the Hull Clade
"It's like that old saying: what goes up . . . feeds the arboretum."
—Lisette, Witherbloom dean
"The tempest is the only ally I need."
"The elves can hide better than most can look."
—Mwani, Mtenda herder

Dress up like all your favorite Planeswalkers! And Oko.

As their roots soaked in a weak tea of bogwater and decay, the trees absorbed the essence of death into their living tissue.
"We move because the earth does."
—Bruse Tarl, Goma Fada nomad


"The arc of my blade has carved a path of light for the peace that will follow."

"The second stage of the illness: high fever and severe infectiousness."
—Phyrexian progress notes

"No good will come of this."
As Gideon kept the brood lineages at bay, Chandra incinerated the bound Eldrazi titans.

All raptors are aggressive, but ferocidons seem to enjoy their prey's pain.

"I heard their eerie howling, the wolves calling their kindred across the frozen plains."
—Onean scout

Quyzl was told by his mentor to "make more time" for his studies.

"Are you thinking what I'm thinking?"
Those who believed the city of Kroog would never fall to Mishra's forces severely underestimated the might of his war machines.
"Do not call the Balduvians barbaric. Their magic is as potent as it is primal."
—Zur the Enchanter
"It reflects the purity of Mirrodin-that-was."
—Koth of the Hammer
The coral merfolk delight in wrestling with their foes, skinning them alive on the razor-sharp edges of their reef.
Take two steps north into the unsettled future, south into the unquiet past, east into the present day, or west into the great unknown.
Everybody is worth their weight in gold.


Bobbing merrily from opponent to opponent, the scimitar began adding playful little flourishes to its strokes; it even turned a couple of somersaults.
Crovax gazed upon the dead, and for one dark moment he saw a banquet.

Designed by Stone Librande




Centuries ago, five dragons conquered death to rule the living.
"Damn the cannons, mates. Charge!"
The dense jungle surrenders to a lush and lavish expanse. At its center uncoil the spires of Qarsi Palace.
For stitchers and necro-alchemists, it's important that work can continue at all hours.

"We paid the Simic very well for this capability, but we should quickly recoup our expenses in saved wages."
—Milana, Orzhov prelate

It prefers a cooked meal, so it will eat you now and lava-bask later.

If you feel the ground quake, run. If you hear its bellow, flee. If you see its teeth, it's too late.
Sounds of life beckon many a restless soul.
Take two steps north into the unsettled future, south into the unquiet past, east into the present day, or west into the great unknown.

To find its center is to find one's own.

"Let those idiot priests tremble! A new era in unlife begins here and now. Oglor, raise the lightning vane!"
—Stitcher Geralf
"This monstrosity will do—for now."
—Davvol, Evincar of Rath
Aetherborn who are unwilling to accept the decomposition of their bodies invent ways to preserve and augment themselves.





After his hands had crumbled away, leaving only wickedly sharp points, he decided his only purpose was war.
Born of volcanic forces, it thrives on the absolute panic it inspires.



They are the first to greet dissenters on their journey into exile.
"Do not try to negotiate with me, human. You want power? This is the price."
—Ormendahl

"What's wrong, dear? Nothing a 44-to-22 bronze spur gear and reducer pairing couldn't fix, I bet."

"One faith, but many hands in victory."


"Our survival, like theirs, depends on our ability to work together."
—Huatli, to Tishana

"Their ships pollute our air as they themselves pollute our forest."
—Arathel, elvish queen
A mother's love transcends species.
Gremlins in the wild feed on nodules of pure aether, which are also prized by miners.
Even the oldest treefolk was but an acorn when Lorwyn's first mysteries were born.

"In the gathering there is strength for all who founder, renewal for all who languish, love for all who sing."
—*Song of All*, canto 642

"Jharic returned from Grixis changed, a haunted look in her eyes. She destroyed them with an unholy glee that made me shudder."
—Knight-Captain Wyhorn





Labyrinths of tunnels beneath the streets of the Caldaia offer an ample array of discreet routes for enterprising smugglers.
"Those who live by the sword will die by the sword. I choose to do neither."
"I have seen a hundred mortal families rise and fall. I shall outlast a thousand more."
—Olivia Voldaren
"Angels? My feelings remain unchanged."
—Liliana Vess
Outside Drannith's walls, where collateral damage is of no concern, the Coppercoats are free to use more potent methods.

Their rage can grow to such proportions that they explode in a cloud of fire.
"The crucible yields what you have forged in your mind. You need only reach in and draw the masterwork forth."
—Wahara, Keeper of the Crucible
A deafening roar arose as the fury of an enormous vertical river supplanted our serenity. Eddies turned into whirling geysers, leveling everything in their path.
"They said obey and you'll be happy. They said you'll be safe. But we're not safe. We're not happy. And we will not obey."
—Domri Rade
Truth lurks in the depths,
Invisible from the shore.
Knowledge inundates.



"They say the ruins of Sedraxis were once a shining capital in Vithia. Now it is a blight, a place to be avoided by the living."
—Olcot, Rider of Joffik
Gold dragons are the greatest of the metallic dragons in size, power, and wisdom, and often take it upon themselves to safeguard mortal communities from evils that might threaten them.


She reads the battlefield like a map, always seeking the shortest route to victory.

Beauty is a seed, waiting to blossom under her capable hands.
"I can call an army to my side in the blink of an eye. Best not blink."

The mourning families of commanders and generals were often given land, valuables, or money to compensate for their losses.



"What am I looking at? Ashes, dead man."


"Something mighty stirs in the forest. Can't you feel it?"
Her palm flared like the eye of a waking dragon. Then all was calm.

Many cultures have legends of a lush, hidden paradise. The elves of Argoth had no need of such stories.

"You can join me or feed me. Choose fast."
Rumors quickly spread among thieves about a labyrinth without walls and a prize beyond all measures of worth.
"After everything I've survived, it's hard to be frightened by anything anymore."
—Vivien Reid

Goblins are eager to follow orders, especially when those orders involve stealing, hurting, annoying, eating, destroying, or swearing.
"Why do we pray to the Ancestor? Because She listens."
—Mystic elder
The food chain doesn't end at sandwurms.

"Every little hatchling has a parent's claws to guard it."
—Sun Empire saying
The enormous can still be at the mercy of the small.
His mind whirled with grand plans, never thinking of what might happen if he were to succeed.
Both part of the Legacy and an individual in his own right, the silver golem Karn is haunted by a single, terrible incident: while serving to protect the young Gerrard, Karn accidentally took the life of another. Wakened from years spent as a statue, the golem has vowed to never kill again as he rejoins Gerrard.
"All peoples treasure a place where the weary traveler may drink in peace."
—Ajani Goldmane

"From a tiny sprout, the greatest trees grow and flourish. May the seeds of your mind be equally fruitful."
"An angel appeared in the smoldering skies above the fray, her clothes as flames, her armor as fire."
—"Hymn of Angelfire"
The greatest masters of the craft abandon tools altogether, shaping metal with hand and mind alone.
Kill a gnarlid with your first blow, or it'll cheerfully show you how it's done.


"Kill the weak so they can't drag the strong down to their level. This is true compassion."
—Benzir, archdruid of Temple Might
The waters of wisdom are as dust in the mouth of one who thirsts for power.



"Their tears spill over Jamuraa. Mixed with blood, they wash everything red."
—"Love Song of Night and Day"

"Who can deny the call to battle when it sings in our blood?"

"We are to be bound together as the reeds of a basket."
—Asmira, Rashida, and Jabari, unity chant
"I tell you, the trees were closing in! It's by the grace of the Heron alone that I made it out of the Ulvenwald!"
—Ricton, traveling merchant


Instead of creating a tool that would be damaged by heat, the Thran built one that was charged by it.
"An idiot cannot hear sense, even when a thousand people speak it."
—Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi Heretic
Bitter vengeance never glowed so bright nor sang so sweet.
"Catch!"
Don't worry about provoking grizzly bears; they come that way.


"The strings were gone, but he still felt the pull of invisible forces tugging at his mind."
—*Beyond the Great Henge*

"Not again!"
Before a woman marries in the village of Sursi, she must visit the land of the mesa pegasus. Legend has it that if the woman is pure of heart and her love is true, a mesa pegasus will appear, blessing her family with long life and good fortune.




Born with wings of light and a sword of faith, this heavenly incarnation embodies both fury and purity.


"We are never without guidance, if we but seek it."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter
Even an enemy is a valuable resource.
Agreements with demons seldom end at the grave.

Her children are ever part of her.
"With a single word, they were unmade."
—Krinnea, *Siege of the Bone Spire*

The lawmage's argument was clever and well reasoned, but Blunk's response proved irrefutable.


Fear is its habitat, sanity its prey.


Enter those who are starving and sick. You are welcome among the Swarm when the rest of Ravnica rejects you.
The mask isn't meant to hide his identity. It's meant to keep the viscera out of his eyes.






"Their blood is the nectar that nourishes the Cabal."
—Phage the Untouchable
"When the land is angry, so are they."
—Nissa Revane
If you feel the ground quake, run. If you hear its bellow, flee. If you see its teeth, it's too late.
She protects the sacred groves from blight, drought, and the Unbeholden.
With Olivia distracted, Sigarda tore free from her bindings and summoned her Host of Herons.

From the moment they arrived, wedding guests were met with a pageant of wealth and excess.
"Hallowed be this assortment of diverse things!"
Mages of Esper measure their wealth and status by the number of servants in their retinues.
"We are all."
Remote but always watching, the soaring city of Otawara moves over Kamigawa with a purpose that few understand.





A chorus of howls answers his call.
Even vampires know to travel faster when they hear howling in the Geier Reach passes.

The changing of a single moment in Tarkir's past altered its future, rewriting its history.

"Any apprentice with a spellbook and two sticks can churn out a fireball. This is different. This is art."


The apes of Yavimaya draw strength from the spirits of their ancestors.

A full coffin is like a full coffer—both are attractive to thieves.

You carry the security of Baldur's Gate on your shoulders, and you welcome the weight of responsibility.

"Opportunity isn't something you wait for. It's something you create."

"My ears say it hisses. My fingers say it burns."
—Auntie Wort

"I am heir to many treasures. None is as precious as knowing how my ancestor lived her life."
What some see as "distracted" is really "fathoming the unfathomable."
When emotions rain down, what rivers will be born?

When Temur warriors enter the battle trance known as "awakening the bear," they lose all sense of enemy or friend, seeing only threats to the wilderness.
"The realm of the gods opens before me!"
Small aeronaut societies like the Wind-Kin had little to lose by siding with the renegades, and much to gain.

Its victims are known by their eyes: shattered vessels leaking broken dreams.
"Here, my pet. Another little light for you to snuff out."
—Kzarakh, Immersturm gamekeeper
A drop now is all he needs to find you later.
In life, the nantuko study nature by revering it. In death, they study nature by disemboweling it.
"The most unexpected weapon that a monster can wield is kindness."
—*Tales of the Ozolith*
"Nothing is too broken to mend."
"The big fella sounds hungry. Let's send him to bed without his supper."



"Commander, we caught the Dimir spy and took her ashes into custody."
—Kramm, Wojek security officer


"Sure, you can get one elsewhere … if you want a knockoff that'll break the first time you use it."
"I've been all over this world. I even remember some of those places."

Memories of the Harvesttide tragedy festered until they grew into an incarnate rage that set the world ablaze.
"My time will come, when life's frantic striving will fade into the boundless quiet of death."
Liliana is never one to follow someone else's lead.



"There's no heron in the moon! It's a shrew, a five-legged shrew, with a voice like whispering thunder!"

"An ancient court mage unified the houses into guilds to serve Zhalfir above their own interests. Even during the civil war, the guilds stood together, a testament to the wisdom of Teferi."
—Afari, *Tales*

Havoc is a small price to pay for data.
"The two youths argued and tempers flared. One youth opened his mouth to utter a vile curse, but what he spat out instead was a kami of poison and filth."
—Sensei Golden-Tail
On the volcanic continent of Akoum, bizarre vegetation clusters around gas vents, and jagged mountain peaks rise high into the air.



"Don't get up. I'll show myself out."





It will come to the defense of all wild things, from the shivering wren to the towering giant.
"I study the past to find hope for the future."


Nature grows solutions to its problems.
"Wrath is no vice when inflicted upon the deserving."
Chaos does not choose its enemies.


"And through the drifts the snowy cliffs/ Did send a dismal sheen:/ Nor shapes of men nor beasts we ken—/ The ice was all between."/
—Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
In all her years of vigil, her resolve has never faltered.
To succeed, the wizards made a deal with devils.
"Let their mindless armies come and face the might of genius."
—Varil, Neurok partisan
Novice explorers can mistake the acid-carved stone lairs for ancient ruins. They rarely survive to learn better.







Her cold wail echoes in the alleys and under-eaves, finding the unfortunate and turning their blood to ice.
Travelers who leave an offering may pass freely through the forest kami's domain.
Age wears the flesh but galvanizes the soul.

"At the core of all power is raw passion." —Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen


"Dig. Dig. Dig. Dig. Dig. Dig. Die!"
—Goblin chant
Phyrexia's machines take inspiration from nature. Twisted, disturbing inspiration.
"Let go of all that harms you. Cast your burdens into the darkness, and build for the faithful a house of light."
—*Song of All*, canto 1008

What goes up, must come down.


Before a woman marries in the village of Sursi, she must visit the land of the Mesa Pegasus. Legend has it that if the woman is pure of heart and her love is true, a Mesa Pegasus will appear, blessing her family with long life and good fortune.
Dimir mages put the lanterns to good use, creating shapeshifters and sleeper agents from mana foreign to them.
"All who set foot in Paliano are pawns in someone's play for power."
—Marchesa, the Black Rose


"The Founder Dragons weren't even hatched when this scroll was written!"

"One piece? Now there's a hundred!"
"There is a future in which I can see only mist and a single shadow."
—Oracle *en*-Vec
The phantom warrior comes from nowhere and returns there just as quickly.


The destruction of Markov Manor made the surviving members of the bloodline more dangerous.
Made of bone and boiled in blood, a Rakdos signet is not considered finished until it has been used as a murder weapon.


Quicksmiths are eager to jump from one project to the next, relying on flashes of inspiration rather than careful research.
An artificer's least favorite mind-missive may be "I regret to inform you that the funding for your project has been cut."
She follows the old tributaries built when merrows still shaped the tides.
"I call upon both predators and protectors, for now is a season of war."
The undisputed master of the mountains of Shiv.
"The air stirred as if fanned by angels' wings, and the enemy was turned aside."
—Tales of Ikarov the Voyager



"Strength batters down barriers. Discipline ignores them."
The thoughtweft is his informant, and he its devoted guardian.

"What can be a stronger shield than concealment? Have you ever defeated an enemy you didn't know existed?"
—Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen



Lead, follow, or run around like crazy.
Keldon warriors take advantage of the cyclops's inability to focus on more than one thing at a time.
A symbol of what Mirrodin once was and hope for what it will be again.


Battle doesn't need a purpose; the battle is its own purpose. You don't ask why a plague spreads or a field burns. Don't ask why I fight.

Treasures, trinkets, trash—the relics of the past are brought forth again.
Untold riches await those who forsake the bustling world to search the secret, silent places.


"Anyone can snap her fingers and yank a soul. I prefer to kill creatively."
—Braids, dementia summoner
The mightiest clouds sit upon spires of fire.
—Femeref adage

Despite the chaos of the Roil and the devastation of the Eldrazi, Zendikar is a world of breathtaking beauty.

"It is technically an ooze, but its life span measures only seconds. In that short time, its appetite for magic is extraordinary."
—Simic research notes




"Many wearing rapiers are afraid of goose-quills."
—William Shakespeare, *Hamlet*

"A single item acting as lantern and lance? Now *that's* military efficiency."
—Brev Grezar, Boros lieutenant

". . . and I will need an equally righteous but slightly smaller saddle for my space hamster companion."
—Minsc, beloved ranger

His heart, the coal; his eye, the spark; his hand, the whirling flame.

Thunder doesn't always mean rain. Sometimes it means ruin.
The Order of Saint Traft found new strength with Sigarda's support.
Now you see it, now you're gone.
"Run home, cur. I've already taken your master's head. Don't make me thrash you with it."
All deeds once committed, repaid now in kind.


It moves through lava with the force of an erupting volcano.

Most students could barely endure Dean Embrose's scrutiny for a semester or two; Killian lived with it his entire life.
"If the acrobatic show doesn't wow the audience, we have no one to blame but our elves."
—Myra the Magnificent


The problem with a liquid that can dissolve anything is finding something to carry it in.
Trust, the fifth myth of reality: Every truth holds the seed of betrayal.
"Bring down a stag and fix its horns upon her head. This one hears the whispers."
—Chianul, at the weaving of Arel



Dark schemes cut down what armies cannot.




As the Eternal's cold fingers tightened around his throat, Domri realized what kind of master he had rushed to serve.

"What part of 'hayaku ikee!' did you not understand?"
No matter the timeline, some legends will endure.


Nicol Bolas doesn't distinguish between servants and victims.
"Soaring is wasted on the winged."
—Edric, Spymaster of Trest




It does no good to bar the gate when the enemy is already inside.


Beauty appears in strange places for those with eyes to see it.
The Mirari's magic transformed the Krosan Forest—and its inhabitants.

Unfettered by allegiance, driven by war.
Just as each added feather steadies the wing, so does the flock grow stronger with each new member.
"Since I cannot stop death, I choose to stop life."
—Kaervek
The only thing it likes more than discovering a pit of bones is adding to it.


"His tongue must be honey, the way he gathers ants to fight with him."
—Volrath
These small but intelligent Dragons and their Olesian allies held back the tide of Pashalik Mons's hordes of Goblin Raiders.
*DragonCon 1994*

"Sometimes a burden can be borne only on the shoulders of a willing enemy."
—Suq'Ata aphorism
The wizard Greensleeves called a Giant Badger to her aid in an battle with the desert mage Karli.
"I admit, I am a creature of the city. The sights, the nightly excitement, the abundance of fine drink . . ."
The dead who wander beyond the safety of the city crave only to spread their curse.



If even the slightest hint of panic enters the thoughtweft, bakers, potters, and even medics drop their spoons and salves to take up arms.

Темный дар Чейнера еще более темной душе.
Victory is certain. The price, negotiable.
For a moment, Urza thought not of war and destruction, but of the freedom of the skies.


"Not all armies enjoyed the services of a medic. For them, Balm of Restoration was that much more valuable."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. I*
Born with wings of light and a sword of faith, this heavenly incarnation embodies both fury and purity.

While most in Paliano seek fame through favor, he'll settle for infamy through blood.



Without Ardenvale's loyalty, the realm would greedily devour itself.
She was born unable to walk. Through the *eludha*, she was able to fly.
As uplifting as a mystic's dreams.


The Eldrazi may be ruthless, but Zendikar is relentless.
From the time they are hatchlings, river drakes are taught to pull the largest prey from the Luxa.
"Boggart blood disgusts me almost as much as the foul creatures themselves."
The sculptor, weary of his work, created art that would finish itself.

It carries the hopes of Zendikar's embattled wilds on its mighty boughs.
In desperation, Pero called on his memory of a lightning storm that nearly killed his family. When he opened his eyes, only smoke and dust remained.

Each new generation of slivers evolves to assimilate the strengths of the prey upon which their progenitors fed.

Animated by geists fused in its oak, it hungers for more life to add to its core.

Once, the order of the Closed Fist reached throughout the Kb'Briann Highlands. Now, Jerrard alone remains to uphold their standard.

For the Rakdos, "suicidal charge" and "good showmanship" are one and the same.
"Fair fight? How could it be a fair fight? We're Akroans. They're not."
"While we slept, our inferiors infested the worlds that belong to us. Now, we awaken once more."
—Szarekh, the Silent King
Just because your eyes are open doesn't mean you're awake.
"All we are—every feeling, every action—powered by a single, delicate little organ. Life is so terrifyingly, beautifully fragile."


The plague moved faster than an army and was far more deadly.
Golgari reclaimers resent the gorgons, begrudging the loss of so many fine nutrients locked away in stone.
Some superstitious persons believe that owls, being creatures of the night, are agents of Evil; but those who make such claims see only the reflection of their own guilty Consciences.









"Welcome to the Dimir Public Offices. Not responsible for death or loss of property. Basement off-limits."
—Sign outside Dinrova Building
"It's gingerbread, like Mother makes. What is there to be afraid of?"



A cinder's axe bears no marks from parrying a foe's blade.



"The bane of countless shattered weapons, each a failure to slay her."
—Daghatar the Adamant
A permanent storm rages over the plain of Cloudheath, and drakes ride its currents—two reminders that some elements of Esper will not be controlled.
"Those who hide in hollow towers would do well to remember the rain."
—Reyhan, Samite Alchemist




Campus pranksters initiate new students with the old "beeble bomb" routine.







Covered with hard shell-like plates, these slivers burrow through solid rock to carve out new nests for their hives.




"Even swamps need sustenance. We will give it to them, and in turn, they will sustain us."
—Ezrith, druid of the Dark Hours


"I never give odds on my own fights. Unless, of course, you want to bet *against* me . . ."
"The shaman waved the staff, and the land itself went mad."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry
"Not even my shadow knows where I am."

The most tenacious members of the hive instinctually guard the First Sliver.

"The land gives of itself. Its abundance provides, even in times of chaos."
"How truly vast this city must be, that I have traveled so far and seen so much, yet never once found the place where the buildings fail."
Once it has your scent, it will hunt you from the Gurmag Swamp to Ayagor.




From its cocoon, a flurry takes flight.
"If you think yourself a chief, then prove your might."
—Gar-Tun, Mistvalley silverback
"When something dies, all things benefit. Well okay, just our things."
—Ezoc, Golgari rot farmer

"You caught something on a cold night's stroll? No, I'd say something caught you."
—Mezim Magrah, civic healer
While most power is used for ordinary, everyday tasks, one shouldn't underestimate its potential for the extraordinary.






To most, the Nido Sanctuary is an office complex. To the Brokers, it's a vault of secrets.


Amidst the darkest ashes grow the strongest seeds.
When the Erstwhile were unearthed from their tombs, they became a ready-made army for Vraska.



Magistrate Ludy agreed to designate land for the brushstriders only after several broken windows and dozens of missing blini-cakes.
Where dragons once triumphed, their bones now molder.
Warriors of the Rip Clan wear their beetle-acid scars proudly, even modifying clothing and armor to better display the trophy.

He doesn't slow until his spear is weighted with corpses.
"Soulless demon, you are bound to me. Now we will both dwell in oblivion."
"His strengths are pride, devotion, and ambition. His weaknesses are the same."
—Pianna, nomad captain


"I made that! It's mine! Did you see that?"

Ora Ondar, the Khalni Garden, is a lush tangle of growth in the harsh lands of Akoum. Its plant growth is marvelously diverse: a brilliant spectrum of vibrant life . . . and speedy death.

"You can have the body, necromancer. I just want the skin."

"One day, the great serpent will rejoin us on Skemfar, and those who've wronged us will taste of our venom."
"You idiot! Never let the spies mingle with the orcish regulars after completing a mission. Now we'll never get them to fight!"
—General Khurzog


Its lock changes to fit each key.
"The Hand of Justice will come to cleanse the world if we are true."
—Oliver Farrel




"Nyx may belong to the gods, but the skies of Theros are ours."
"I swing a sword. It's a simple life. A lot of adventurers just see me as some cheap muscle, but if my steel lets them return home with their lives and limbs intact, then I've done my job."
Bitter vengeance never glowed so bright nor sang so sweet.

D'Haren stared at the twisted lump of metal that had been a prized artifact. The fight was getting ugly.

"We give the audience what they want."
—Juri, proprietor of the Juri Revue
When you've been chased by a dragon, you run from every lizard.
—Suq'Ata saying


In the smoldering ashes of Shiv, a few dragons strive to rebuild their native land. The rest seek any opportunity to restore the broken pride of their race.

How do you map a world when the land moves beneath your feet?

As long as one drop of the oil exists, the joyous work continues.
"If I says it's a troll, it's a troll. Goblins is always right in Mercadia."
—Squee
It can kill you with three arms tied behind its back.





Krark was the kind of goblin who'd lose his thumb in a wager and come right back with "Double or nothing!"

Rigid minds are the first to break.
Masters of the arcane savor a delicious irony. Their study of deep and complex arcana leads to such a simple end: the ability to say merely yes or no.

Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.

Think of it as a butcher knife with wings.
"Fool! Can't you see the tide has turned against you?"

Keldon soldiers learn to move faster than the whip.
"Daughter, on the day you have killed your Pale Bear, then will I give you your true name."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain

"Imagine a dove flying through smoke. Does the dove injure the smoke? Does the smoke impede the dove?"
—Teachings of Eight-and-a-Half-Tails
Designed to restrain petty thoughts, but used to repress entire empires.

"At last! Proof that it's not all in my head!"

If bribery and intimidation fail, Marchesa turns to her favorite form of bureaucracy.


Infinitely powerless.


Chandra used jets of flame to lure hellions into the path of oncoming Eldrazi.



Tel-Jilad, sanctum of the ancient trolls, keepers of the secret of Mirrodin's origin.
"Unearthly and invisible fibers emanate from this sphere, entangling all who draw near."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist


The Trial of Knowledge challenges and broadens the minds of initiates.





The Orzhov care not for repentance, only repayment.

"They who challenge a minotaur enjoy the taste of their own blood."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight*


"Brilliant! They evolved away from energy-taxing brains and respond only to spinal reflex arcs from the hive mind."
—Rukarumel, field journal
Two different visions of freedom clashed at the gates of the Imperial Palace.

Spring breathes the magic of new life.




The greatest challenge isn't the stifling heat but the crushing weight of those who failed before.
Mephidross gives up treasure easily . . . as long as you take its place.




"The blessings of Gaea alone are no longer enough."


"His skin cuts swords."
—*The Seer's Parables*
"Aw, he's just a silly, dirty little man. What's to be afraid of?"
"What do you do then? Run. Run very fast. Don't stop until you see the camp—or a bigger Giant."
—Toothlicker Harj, Orcish Captain


"Center of the Sea, Eye of the World, Shrine of Enlightenment. Seek it for answers. Seek it for healing. Seek it and return transformed."
—Scroll fragment from the ruins of Minamo

It traps an explosion within its stony skin.
"This 'standing windstorm' can hold us off indefinitely? Ridiculous!" Saying nothing, she put a pinch of salt on the table. With a bang she clapped her hands, and the salt disappeared, blown away.









"Those may be the squirms of one life ending or of another beginning. Either way, I'd leave it alone."
—Rakka Mar
"The Boros fight for justice. The Azorius fight for law. I hold the line between, and make sure the people are given both."
"Which one of you slug-brained milksops forgot to make an offering to Cosima?"
—Jolkur, navigator


"It's just business."
"It used to be a lair. Now it's just a tunnel."

"You have not died until I consent."

"All peoples treasure a place where the weary traveler may drink in peace."
—Ajani Goldmane



"You cannot imagine what eyes you may look through tomorrow."
—Aerona, elder druid


"Roam as you will, your roots remain in the strong earth of your Rising."


Pricey baubles are no match for cheap tricks.
All goblin rituals serve a dual purpose as fertility rites, even the destructive ones. Especially the destructive ones.
While trapping the Eldrazi on Zendikar, Ugin learned little from Sorin, but he gleaned the rudiments of lithomancy from Nahiri.
The desert is a voracious beast, devouring both flesh and stone.

"Wheeeeeeeeeeeeeee!"
"Captain, I think that island is following us."
Some try to unravel the tangled skeins of fate. She reweaves them to her own deadly design.

The giant Tarvik dreamed that trinkets and machines caused all the world's woe. When he awoke from his troubled sleep, he took the name Tarvik Relicsmasher.
Some fiendish mage had created a horrifying wall of living flesh, patched together from a jumble of still-recognizable body parts. As we sought to hew our way through it, some unknown power healed the gaping wounds we cut, denying us passage.

You embrace power at any cost, and if it consumes you, so be it.
"I found a new toy. Wanna play?"



"Together my mount and I are stronger than either of us apart."
He has spent years training his eyes and ears to detect the subtle signs of a dragon's approach.
"Heat from the rotating mechanism is captured and converted into energy, allowing it to operate in perpetuity."
—*Rusko's Compendium of Clockwork"

"You forfeited any right to mercy the moment you challenged me."
"Their buzzing makes my bones hum from a mile away."
—Galenti, treasure hunter


The Quietus Cult holds their grim ceremonies in the dark places where unburied dead litter the ground.



It seeks those driven by curiosity and offers enlightenment.

The baloth's instincts boiled, its muscles pulled taut, and its razor-spines bristled, as it turned to face—a runt meepling.
"It was a strange morning. When we awoke, we found our trees transformed. We didn't know whether to water them or polish them."
—Pulan, Bant orchardist

Tovolar's howl of command was too much to resist, even for Arlinn's own loyal pack.
"When I battled Ojutai, I realized my learning had only begun."
—Shu Yun, the Silent Tempest
All the wonders of the natural world in one breathtaking microcosm.


"Vodalian Soldiers had some unique advantages. Often they would ride into battle on war machines rumored to have come from the far northern oceans."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. V*
Each flower identical, every leaf and petal disturbingly exact.
"Avacyn's protection is everywhere. From the holy church to the sacred glade, all that we see is under her blessed watch."

"The balance of day and night is shattered. We must find the Moonsilver Key."

"Let the past be the past. Do not call up that which you cannot put down. Destroy that which destroyed us, so long ago."
—Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi Heretic

Durlag's Tower is filled with enough treasure to last a lifetime, and enough traps to drastically shorten that lifetime.


"I am the purifier, the light that clears all shadows."
—Seal inscription
Tezzeret's command of living metal has nothing to do with intricate gearcraft or aether supplies.
"I do things in my own time."
—Etha, initiate of Rhet crop
"Grow food in dirt? Save time—eat dirt."
"'We have no legs,' the warrior spat, 'for we have finished running.'"
—Vodalian folktale
"When civilization reaches out its greedy hand, take it off at the wrist."
—Garruk Wildspeaker


The blessings of Heliod are apparent for all to see.
No evidence, no crime.
"I protect the Legacy with my life if necessary, for its purpose is far more important than my own."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator

"Ah, the midway, beating heart of the—well, maybe the big top is the heart. If there were two hearts, then the midway—or the lungs. Lungs or stomach!"
—Captain Rex Nebula



"You say that I am two-faced? Enough with the flattery. We have business to conduct."


"Megatron must be stopped. No matter the cost!"
—Optimus Prime


One Auroch may feed a village, but a herd will flatten it.

"You've begun to understand the hedrons' true purpose," said Ugin. "The Eldrazi can be imprisoned."
"And how did that work out last time?" asked Jace.
Those who do learn from history may still choose to repeat it.

The elite of Ojutai's brood, the skywise see their enemies as puzzles to be solved.

"Even the threat of power has power."
—Jeska, warrior adept



Where air meets water, fish meets talon.
The glow of the big top can be seen for light years, but its excitement can be felt in the hearts of everyone who's ever been there.



The void is without substance but cuts like steel.
"The truth? It's been here all along. The Hours as we understood them are lies."

The wealthy in the city of Ghirapur outfit their lives with grand machines, entrusting even their children to filigree and gears.
An early inspiration for Urza, Tocasia's Onulets contained magical essences that could be cannibalized after they stopped functioning.


A demon cannot be trusted, and a dragon will not be ruled.
"The Dauthi army grows by screams and bounds."
—Lyna, Soltari emissary
He's got an axe to grind.
Not all storms come from the sky.

Although the door is flimsy and the lock pathetically small, Josuri's family never fears the night outside.
Her paean is the clash of spears, her prayer a battle cry.

It feeds on metal filings suspended in the water, sieving flecks of precious ore through magnetic baleen.

Olka collected the evening mist for years, studying its secrets. Once she learned its essence, she could vanish with a thought.
"I will make your bones into a weapon that will lay even the mighty low."
—Modriss of Zargoth Fen


There's no stronger armor than the bravery of those beside you.
After years of honing her philosophy in debate with stubborn rhoxes, Niella was ready to convert any heathen.
"Destruction is the work of an afternoon. Creation is the work of a lifetime."
—Kamahl, druid acolyte



The Kipamu League knew what Keld refused to acknowledge: the land could support no more.
"An angel can shine like the sun, inspire the weak, and even threaten victory over darkness. But in the end it matters not, for it still dies like any other pest."
—Ob Nixilis


"Words are a waste of time. Destruction is a language everyone understands."
—Sarkhan Vol
"They are bred to suffer and born to die. Much like humans."
—Gix, Yawgmoth praetor


TODAY'S FORTUNE: TO AVOID CERTAIN DOOM, MAKE SURE TO . . . INSERT ADDITIONAL TOKENS TO CONTINUE.





In peaceful times, these beings escorted the honored kami to their new shrines. In the Kami War, they became the medics of an unstoppable army.

Children claim no two feathers are exactly the same color, then eagerly gather them for proof.
Every part of the gate was reclaimed from forgotten ruins and imbued with new purpose by the Swarm.
Saprolings add the three and the four to the "one-two punch."


"Taking down a dragon is easy. All you need is enough space to get in a good swing."
—Narbulg Nine Fingers

Get in touch with your inner monster.
"Unit alpha-6 locking into position!"
Storm crow descending, winter unending. Storm crow departing, summer is starting.


Raissa transformed herself into a vessel for the Watchword Codex, allowing the arcane lore to flow through her body.

Mirri was startled by Volrath's apparition—it had no scent.
The Atarka use them not just for food, but also to clear away snow, trees, and enemy forces.
"Ihsan, the weak. Ihsan, the fallen. Ihsan, the betrayer. He has brought shame to the Serra Paladins where none existed before. May his suffering equal his betrayal."
—Baris, Serra Inquisitor

Older than the mountains, the dragons, and the wars of humans and machines.
The nova glyph is a potent symbol. A shield embossed with it can resist the force of even the most determined giant.


As Jhoira restored the *Weatherlight*, a mushroom growing in its hold unexpectedly became her first crew member.


"Impress me."

Only the most pious and devoted Imperial servants are granted the posthumous honor of becoming servo-skulls.




It sleeps with its claws open.



"If what I have seen comes to pass, we will need our guardians more than ever."
—Ushanti, leonin seer




"The dragon has no pretense of compassion, no false mask of civilization—just hunger, heat, and need."
—Sarkhan Vol

"Shine bright, bolts tight."
"Marchesa's poison is delivered by more than daggers."
—Adriana, Captain of the Guard
Through the smoke and flames it hunts, sniffing out the panicked and confused.


"I do not teach. I simply reveal."
—Daudi, Femeref tutor


In times of peril, the vision the ancient paruns had for their city comes into focus.
The rustling of leaves and a passing shadow are a dryad's only trace.
"What she saw crawling upon this world repulsed her. Yet she could not tear her gaze away."
—*The Seer's Parables*


"Some see a coastal disaster. I see a fully-stocked seagraf."
—Jadar, ghoulcaller of Nephalia

The dying ask for water because they know it contains life.


"To prevent, one must first predict."

The elves had entered a land like an open grave—an act of fortitude or folly?
The trees have ears, eyes, and teeth.

Its collapse is like the lashing out of a long-dead civilization that resents being forgotten.


"Progress update: the problem of the slagheap blocking the entrance seems to have solved itself."
—Mine supervisor's report
"The common folk call it the breaking of the crust or the spilling of fire. Geomancers call it target practice."
—Ryda, geomancer
"I've lived too long in my father's shadow. It's time to find my own light."
—Killian, Silverquill mage-student
Even when many of the soldiers who guarded Akros were called away, its safety was never in doubt.
Many take the lobster for granite.
The Minotaurs of the Hurloon Mountains are known for their love of battle. They are also known for their hymns to the dead, sung for friend and foe alike. These hymns can last for days, filling the mountain valleys with their low, haunting sounds.
Don't be fooled by the riders' fluid grace—it takes years of practice to ride these beasts.
"One touch of nature makes the whole world kin."
—William Shakespeare,
*Troilus and Cressida*

"These storied halls are under my protection."
"Now it's your turn to hide."
—Vraska

Otaria's frequent tremors are the last stages of Dominaria's recovery from the Phyrexian war.

In the end, death usually has its way.


"No matter how much a plane has suffered, there is a way to restore it."
—Nissa Revane

www.wizards.com/hottub



"Don't worry. I'm not going to deprive you of all your secrets. Just your most precious one."
—Liliana Vess
"As long as we have walked this world, we have known it as a harsh and unforgiving place."
—*The Invokers' Tales*
"I hear there are Bears—or spirits—that guard caravans passing through the forest."
—Gulsen, Abbey Matron


"Each tooth is the length of a horse, and new ones grow in every sixteen days. Let's get a closer look!"
—Vivien Reid

"Do not underestimate the power of many against one."
—Sidar Jabari

"Oglor create life, Oglor take it away. Oglor god! . . . until Master return."







The stench of bloodcap mushrooms on the breath is enough to ward off even the most potent magics, especially when combined with a special chant: "Hushhh."
The falcon is the picture of nobility, maintaining a regal bearing even as it conducts the bloody business of war.
The elves of Wilt-Leaf Wood continually expand the palisade surrounding the sanctuary. They hope to one day enclose the entire forest within its walls.
"How can you serve me? By dying."

The blast ignores the cage of metal but devours the flesh inside.
"Wait, it'll come to me in a minute."
Light's champion in the stronghold of darkness.

"Good ol' rock. Nothing beats rock."
—Rhirhok, goblin archer
As Ob Nixilis closed in, Halo swept through Giada like an electrical current, and inside her, something long dormant unfurled its wings.


Many Tin Street shops display a sign on the door: "No cloaks allowed."




"When we were lost and weary, the ainok showed us how to survive. They have earned the right to call themselves Abzan, and to wear the Scale."
—Anafenza, khan of the Abzan

"The stars belong in the night sky. This is our world, and we are our own masters."
"Nothing against you. It's just that waiting for Consulate clearance was never really my thing."


"If one gets in your chimney, you're going to need a long wick and a barrel of bangstuff to get it out."
—Hob Heddil
"We all want to know what's going on in someone else's head. I simply open it up and look."
Wrap the flame as twine Kingdoms will be thine.

The dark of night never truly falls on Ketria, where abundant crystals bathe the land in their glow.
They charge into battle and out for their morning walk with the same exuberance.
"When struck, its hide shimmers through sequences of color—a signaling language I am eager to unravel."
—Rukarumel, field journal



In the first moments, the gate to the afterlife opened, and the people were prostrate in the light of the God-Pharaoh.


As Glissa searches for the truth about Memnarch, Bosh searches to unearth the secrets of his past.
"If we've run out of warm bodies, then cold bodies will have to do."
—Modriss of Zargoth Fen
The delicate sprites carry messages for Saprazzans, but they refuse to land in Mercadia City's filthy markets.
The druids of Mazar treat each seedcone with respect for the warrior it will become.


Samite alchemists extracted aromatic traces of healing minerals from the residue of the receding salt dunes.


"Here—have a Mudhole."
"It offers you what you want, not what you need."
—Braids, dementia summoner


What he lacks in stature, he makes up for with enthusiasm.
"What they don't know will definitely hurt them."
—Lazav
It offers the power to shape worlds and the elegance to do so with style.
"I am the first line of defense. You will not encounter the second."



"Magic is my thread, my will the needle. I weave over you as if you never were."
—Poetics of Hanan
"What's that smell?"
—Perena Deepcutter, Dwarven Armorer
"It's not just what you know. It's knowing where to find what you don't."



"Fear writhes and whispers in the shadows of your mind. It is the enemy you always knew would come."
—Ashiok




Such power grows the body as it shrinks the soul.
From the heart of the mountain into the heart of the mage.


A dictator's infuriating smirk, an affront to everything Ravnica stood for.
"Naga shed their scales. We wear ours with pride."
—Golran, dragonscale captain
"Humans bring nothing but suffering and deceit. They are not welcome in my forest."
Beneath the waves, lost gods stir in their slumber.


"Give it a week and it will feed an army."

An emblem of a secret guild, the Dimir insignia is seen only by its own members—and the doomed.




Some of the eleven minotaur clans of Mirtiin are expert crafters and learned philosophers. Others just like to hit stuff.



Many who cross Sorin's path come down with a sudden and fatal case of being-in-the-way-of-a-millennia-old-vampire.


The runes glow beneath the snow, bearing memories of a time when the old gods ruled the realms.

Once they reached Orazca, the Legion's explorers ransacked tombs and temples, hunting for the Immortal Sun.
"Your ignorance is my bliss."
—Szadek
"Those who stood in my path now lay behind me."
Some who scouted new lands chose to stay.
Stage two of the Phyrexian invasion included the complete alteration of Dominaria's landscape.
"The left blade is a for a swift, painless death. The right blade for a long, lingering one. The choice is mine."






"Protocol demands that you bow down before me. I always stand on protocol."

The scrape of shovels and the tumble of cold dirt soon muffled their pleas.
The mage looked within and realized there was still one piece of fuel to burn.
"Bant's most gallant knights wear my sigil, and for that I am humbled."

No one remains on her list for long.
Stitching is an ever-evolving field, with each new advancement reaching a new height of horror.



To tame a griffin is to ride into legend.
"Welcome to the Dimir Public Offices. Not responsible for death or loss of property. Basement off-limits."
—Sign outside Dinrova Building


"I wonder how it feels to be bored."
—Jhoira, artificer

Rather than sheltering her young, the female Fungusaur often injures her own offspring, thereby ensuring their rapid growth.
In desolate places, changelings may take the shape of fancies, or memories, or fears.

"The second wind of ascension is Reaver, slaying the unworthy."
—*Keld Triumphant*
Panic spread like wildfire as the demons of Immersturm poured into Bretagard, slaughtering as they came.
"Fools wear armor against it as if the worst it could take is your blood."
—Gavi, nest warden
She spins a web few can resist. Its sweet aroma sparks chaos in every heart.
"Drain the victim's blood, sell the corpse, and use the soul on guard duty. No muss, no fuss, no problems."
—Olivia Voldaren
Losing his possessions distressed him, but the lack of limbs was strangely liberating.
It's never good to walk into an ambush, but with the right spell you might walk out again.
"On vile wings and bloody wind, the swarm will rise."
—Skyclave inscription
Many a besieged city has surrendered upon hearing the distinctive rumble of the juggernaut.
"We returned to the field and found poor Len, every detail of his final moment perfectly cast in that awful dust."
—Javad Nasrin, outrider captain

The key for surviving a war is never becoming its focus.


Shelby locked eyes with the ferocious creature as the glass began to crack. With one more lunge, she would break through and confront her nemesis at last.

Raising the bones of Hekjek the Mad proved far easier than getting them to lie back down.



"The arc of my blade has carved a path of light for the peace that will follow."
Necrodermis, the living metal from which all Necrons are made, is endlessly adaptive.
The myr are like rusted metal: gleaming purpose hidden by a thin disguise of debris.

Embermages aren't well known for their diplomatic skills.

"Cooked to perfection, of course."



"Where did she come from? More importantly, are there more like her?"
—Gideon Jura
"Come, Koma, and reclaim what you lost! Or does the great serpent fear a rematch?"






"The so-called barbarians will not respect us for our military might—they will respect us for our honor."
—Lucilde Fiksdotter,
leader of the Order of the White Shield
"Watch yourself," warned Starke. "These plants aren't nice when they're hungry."
"I have spied them, wandering and watching—but for what? I fear they watch for us."
—Yonat of Amrou








"Two-faced" is an understatement.
Contrary to popular belief, it's kept aloft by necrogen gas, not the screaming agony of a thousand murdered souls.
"I welcome the use of even the foulest magic if it will rid us of the monstrosities that plague our world."
—Munda, ambush leader
"Master your mind, or I shall master it for you."
"Give up these unnatural weapons, these scrolls. Heart and mind and fist are enough."
—Zyd, Kamahlite druid
Plague and death wrapped in one convenient package.

Each bone honors its owner's best pranks.

Say hello to your new friend.


In pursuit of the juicy fly, Squee stumbled on the hidden hangar.
At night, the faeries steal dreamstuff for their queen. At daybreak, countless creatures wake weak and hollow.
"The Cosmos Serpent favored us with his venom. As thanks, we sink fangs into those who dishonor the old ways."

The scarred rubble around the gate is testament to past meetings of the Clans, summits that inevitably devolved into brawls.

One of the most ferocious and deadly gargantuans, the thoctar never sees its worshippers, but it often awakens surrounded by gifts and sacrifices.

"Please don't feed the beetles."
—Promenade warning sign

Danitha watched in shock as electricity lanced from Jaya's fingertips, obliterating the charging Phyrexians. "What?" said the pyromancer serenely. "I told you I'd learned some new tricks."
There is much talk about the art of creation. What about the art of destruction?
One quiet word sets off the stampede.

A giant statue of a dwarf is still a giant statue.

The demon had flown past the reach of Erebos's whip but not the point of the sun god's spear.


"My time will come, when no road will divide the endless verdure of the trees."
"Do not speak of this to the elders. They look unfavorably upon my indulgences."

In the moment before her execution, she realized what it meant to be a pyromancer, to be alive, to be Chandra.


The mizzium-sphere array drove her mind deep into the thought field, where only the rarest motes of genius may be plucked.

"Those who seek to upset the balance must be taxed for such ambitions."
—Verithain, mesa high priest
Where do you run when the earth becomes your enemy?
"When I'm done training you, anything will be a deadly weapon."

"Our foes are many and mighty, but not as many as the trees or as mighty as the sea."


Few believe Duskmantle exists. Fewer find it. None live to bear witness.
"You have always been a promising student, but your arrogance far outstrips your prowess."

The castle's mages had devised effective counters to every form of siegecraft, but had no answers to gorilla warfare.
When Selesnya needed a champion, Emmara put the ranks of her guild before herself—making her the perfect choice.

The land knows no difference between the graves of commoners and nobles.



The Chamber of the Guildpact stands as a reminder that even the bitterest struggles can end in cooperation.
Nature's strength outlives the strong.




Everything in its path is either pushed aside or ground under.

"Machines feel no fear, no sorrow, no hunger—only glorious purpose, true and pure."





The war cry is not simply a shout but a sacrament.

It glides around the city, a sublime combination of elegance and utility.

"Drakes embody the worst of Ravnica: great potential, twisted by selfishness and greed."
—Razia

"In ages past, bargains were struck and promises were made. Now we must collect on our debt. Begin the hymns."
—Moruul, Khalni druid
Arc mages aren't known for their patience.

Its collapse is like the lashing out of a long-dead civilization that resents being forgotten.

The magical dust clouds Mercadian mages use to traverse the plane generate storms that devastate the surrounding terrain. But as long as the storms don't touch the mountain, the nobles simply don't care.
Accept one favor from an ouphe, and you're doomed to accept another.

"The best way over the mountain is through."


Some Quandrix mages prefer to study at twilight, watching their experimental equations trace glowing trails against the encroaching darkness.




At the setting of each sun, it emerges to clean Mirrodin's floor of the day's carrion.
"When the herd moves, so should you."
—Yon Basrel, Oran-Rief survivalist
Its beak rends flesh and bone, exposing the tender marrow of dream.
"I like goblins. They make funny little popping sounds when they die."
—Braids, dementia summoner
The mizzium-sphere array drove her mind deep into the thought field, where only the rarest motes of genius may be plucked.
"Few of us left, now. Confounded Yeti have opened all the vents. We'd best hide here with the weapons."
—Perena Deepcutter, Dwarven Armorer
Most Quandrix students fundamentally disagree with the concept of "enough."


It herds souls toward eternal torment.
"Tell me, Muse, of that man, so ready at need, who wandered far and wide."
—Homer, *The Odyssey*


"Smash this city to pieces."
—Domri Rade

Cyclical and spiral patterns are the specialty of the Gyre Clade, which seeks to revitalize the cycles of nature.
"You need a six? All right everyone, she needs a six!"
Its assistance is unnervingly similar to its hunting technique.
The lamps on Wyndmoor Street snuff themselves at midnight and refuse to relight, afraid to illuminate what lies in the darkness.


That which endures, survives.

"The cannon wasn't aimed at you!" pleaded Vhati. "I'm not sure which is more pathetic," replied Greven, "your judgment or your aim."
"It only short jump. You go first."
"AIIIEEEE!"
"Hmm . . . we go different way now."
When you have taught an automaton how to build others of its kind, it is a small step to make it build itself.
"And to think, I came in here looking for someone to eat."
The wise always keep an ear open to the whispers of power.
"Aether is the soul of Kaladesh, and all souls should be free."

"Since when is it cheating to give one side an unfair advantage?"
—Braids
The best way to calm a rampaging ceratok is to wait until it dies of natural causes.

As perilous and unpredictable as the wilds themselves.
Life is such a fragile thing.
"I will go to any length to achieve my goal. Eternal life is worth any sacrifice."
—Zur the Enchanter
Red dragons consider the world and every creature in it as theirs to command.
At the second battle of Ruxu, the brave Wu general Gan Ning raided Cao Cao's camp of 400,000 men with only 100 cavalry. Not a single man or horse was lost.


In the late stages of Tyranid invasion, vast capillary towers funnel biomass to the Hive Ships waiting in orbit.
Some priests speak in whispers of the Helvault, a silver prison of unpurged evils.
A Planeswalker's chronicle spans worlds and civilizations, each page a lifetime.
A forest-wide network of webs brings a hungry couple to captured prey.
They fell screaming into the depths of the chasm like so many pebbles tossed down a well.

Better to depart in haste than be dearly departed.


It plucks away memories like choice bits of carrion.
Crippling fear precedes it. A foul stench accompanies it. Death follows in its wake.


Some spirits share ancient wisdom. Others just get mad you touched their stuff.


That which endures, survives.
"The fatal flaw in every plan is the assumption that you know more than your enemy."
—Volrath
"It's truly the highest honor, isn't it? To be remembered? Pity for you."
"It remains unclear whether the akki shamans could in fact create storms or simply predicted them."
—*The History of Kamigawa*

Those who die as heroes are permitted to dwell in Ilysia, a protected realm of the Underworld as tranquil and vibrant as the rest is bleak.



"The dead make good soldiers. They can't disobey orders, never surrender, and don't stop fighting when a random body part falls off."
—Nevinyrral, *Necromancer's Handbook*
Envying the intelligence of goblins is a bad place to be.
Plate mail, the skin of the chest, the rib cage, the heart—all useless against the mage who can reach directly for the soul.


The continent of Murasa lies beneath a blanket of dense vegetation, its enormous branches tangled so thickly that some inhabitants never see the ground.
"The bonds of loyalty can tie one to the grave."
—Crovax, ascendant evincar
The orochi and the monks had always had an unspoken agreement: live and let live. But when the kami began raging, some warrior youths began questioning that agreement.
"Information is a powerful weapon."
—Cymede, queen of Akros
Hill giants are mostly just big. Of course, that does count for a lot!

By design, the sarcophagus muffles the debtors' moans but does not silence them.
The "Days of Darkness" mark the stratozeppelids' annual migration, when for five days they blot out the sun and trumpet their passing.
Better living through metallurgy.
It took the banning of temporal manipulation at Tolaria West to teach its students the value of time.


Grixis is a world where the only things found in abundance are death and decay. Corpses, whole or in part, are the standard currency among necromancers and demons.

The shaman rattles not to inspire a battle fury but to drown out the shrieks of those fleeing the Eldrazi.
"The tyrannous and bloody deed is done, The most arch deed of piteous massacre That ever yet this land was guilty of."
—William Shakespeare, *Richard III*
"If you live on a giant's back, there's only one individual you'll ever need to fear."
—Gaddock Teeg
In its hoofprints, barren dust becomes fertile ground.

"The Consulate sought to crush us. Let's give them a taste of their own medicine."
—Venkat Dasai, renegade commander


"Serra ruled by faith. I cannot afford that luxury."
—Radiant, archangel
Created to capture the spark of genius for later use.



Headquartered at the Bastion of the Honorable, the soldiers of Ghirapur are charged with the task of keeping peace in the city.


A shield of light admits no shadow.

"Let nothing own the skies but the wind."
—Dejara, Giltwood druid
"I don't understand why he works so hard on a device to duplicate a sound so easily made with hand and armpit."
—Barrin, progress report
"There shall be a vast shout and then a vaster silence."
—Oracle *en*-Vec


"These creatures offer new challenges in the scrutiny of entrails."
—Oracle *en*-Vec


"I would advise you not to struggle."
—Huatli


Sins that would be too gruesome in the light of day are made more pleasing in the dark of night.
"Even if I should die in the saddle, she will not let me fall to the ground."
—Hypatia of the Winged Horse
Just try taking *this* bull by the horns.



All the zeal of the Sylvok with only a trace of their conservancy.
"Heel."
Gruul shamans are bent on punishing the civilized. Any act more complex than rubbing sticks together or eating with utensils is met with the stinging burn of their magic.


In nature, not a single bone or scrap of flesh goes to waste.
"All the tortures of my vault of horrors pale in comparison to dealing with those petty Bureaucrats."
—Baron Sengir

"Pain isn't a negative stimulus. Pain is a sign of your imperfection."
—Sheoldred, Whispering One

"Mushroom Queen sits among her spores, Enjoying life and avoiding chores."
—Ibblian pixie ditty







"The scythe-like forelegs are crucial for its survival, because it tastes really good and every inhabitant of Murasa knows it."
—Arhana, Kazandu trapfinder

Tidal forces of the blood moon wrench and buckle the land, drawing monoliths of stone and soil toward the flaming orb.
"Wear the foe's form to best it in battle. So sayeth the bey."
Every time he returns from battle unscathed, he feels a tinge of disappointment.
"Olivia Voldaren has faith only in herself. We answer to a higher calling."
—Thalia, Guardian of Thraben


"YOU MUST BE THIS TALL TO RIDE. YOU HAVE TEN SECONDS TO COMPLY."

There's nothing more exciting than a game of fetch the still-beating heart.
The past is a mirror of the future.

"The reflection is true. It is you who are distorted and false."
"We cannot afford to let the Phyrexians win. They taste terrible."

The murderous horrors of Raven's Run are legendary, but even that haunted place goes quiet when the night wolves howl.



"Who am I to break up a family?"
—Gisa the Mad
"I hear there are Bears—or spirits—that guard caravans passing through the forest."
—Gulsen, Abbey Matron
The view from above is an inspiration to the newly winged.










The best ideas often come from the worst minds.

Basic senses like sight and taste are reserved for those in power.





Cyclical and spiral patterns are the specialty of the Gyre Clade, which seeks to revitalize the cycles of nature.
No reinforcements. Nowhere to retreat. Nothing to lose.

"When I said we needed more swords to protect the realm, this was not quite what I had in mind."
—Olander, tactician of the Northern Verge


As the acrid fumes drifted through the Lower City, even the vermin ceased to stir.
Adi Thandray designed this helm as a tribute to his mentor, the great Daljit Gavaskar.


"It's important to always have the right tool for the job. This one is for picking my teeth."






Searching the future for answers often leads to further questions.







The sunlight falls pristine on the temple at Epityr, softened by the remembered shadows of angelic saviors' wings.
"I've seen my master do this a hundred times. How hard can it be?"
Apes can be gentle, contemplative beasts—but context is everything.

"The ignorant fear change; the wise use it as a weapon."
For the first time in his life, Grakk felt a little warm and fuzzy inside.
The bog's touch means death to all but the darkest of hearts.
"Warmth. Safety. A fully-stocked larder. You'll find nothing like Edgewall Keep in the wilds, I promise you that!"
"Two things a warrior needs: a strong sword and a strong will."
The Phyrexians have one word that means both "evolution" and "pain."

One part mizzium, two parts elemental energy, eleven parts danger.

He enjoys his work, for he sees only the worst Abzan criminals: those who betray their own kin.

The party of Rakdos revelers cackled and capered as the thing approached. It hissed, and they jabbed their torches at it, giggling when it recoiled. Then, one by one, the torches went out—and the screaming began.
When provoked, a flamekin's inner fire burns far hotter than any giant's forge.
He can drown you in his eyes.
Raptors are clever enough to tear away a hard metal shell to get at the tasty morsel inside.

"Regardless of where they come from, crocs are usually able to find their way home. For this one, home is me."
—Vivien Reid
The mask isn't meant to hide his identity. It's meant to keep the viscera out of his eyes.


"Welcome to the Wandering Emporium. Feel free to browse the bazaar. We have everything a lost soul could want, need, or afford."
"I have seen the horrors Kaervek has freed. My Betrayal is certain—but of Kaervek or of Jamuraa, I cannot say."
—Jolrael

"When the land is angry, so are they."
—Nissa Revane





"It's easy to see why those Gruul dirtbags follow him—the only orders he gives are 'Crush them!' and 'We eat!'"
—Teysa

"The Shaman waved the staff, and the land itself went mad."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry





The giant-decorating contest at the migration festival is a tradition that may have started as a dare.


Captain Lewenheart uncovered evidence of a demon cult among the clergy. The Skirsdag never gave him a chance to prove his case.

Leylines branch out from its foundation like roots from a tree. These draw mana from every region and welcome all living things into its verdant chambers.

Truth tempers fanaticism.
Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.
At his side, humble beasts become weapons more deadly than sharpened steel.




Her webs, spun from her own hair, reach from Nyx to the mortal world and even into the Underworld.


"How can there be doubt in the presence of such blessings?"
—Ukhat, vizier of initiation

The calm comes after the storm.

"Her hunger knows no limit. Left unchecked, she would feast on all of Tarkir."
—Yasova Dragonclaw
His mind was lost long before his flesh.
"Unwelcome thoughts crowd my mind. Are they my own madness, or the whispers of another?"
—Sarkhan Vol


As Gerrard and Greven neared each other, the moggs caught between them realized they should flee.

"If I wanted all the parts to match, I wouldn't have become a stitcher."
—Barton, stitcher
Swarms thrive in its nest, feeding on leathery bits of discarded wing.

The banks of the Luxa River attract all manner of predator but only the most resilient of prey.
"The faith of Serra is borne on wings of hope."
—Gulsen, Abbey Matron


Some competitors fight for glory or money. Some just like hitting people.


The good news is it's vegetarian. The bad news is it just doesn't like you.



The settlement knew there was something strange about the cloud when the old priest Mandli suddenly grabbed an axe and ran screaming into the hills.

The goblins made an unruly pile with military precision.
"Ha, banishment? Be merciful, say 'death,' For exile hath more terror in his look, Much more than death."
—William Shakespeare, *Romeo and Juliet*
"Let go of all that harms you. Cast your burdens into the darkness, and build for the faithful a house of light."
—*Song of All*, canto 1008
The giant spider's silk naturally resists gravity, almost weaving itself as it blankets the forest canopy.

"We breathe from our soul and bones to give strength to the jungle. The jungle breathes from its roots and rivers to give strength to us."
—Shaper Falani


Just assume every conversation is on record.
"We are not yet free of Lim-Dûl's terrors."
—Halvor Arensson, Kjeldoran Priest

A Thran relic, it has spent ten thousand years doing absolutely nothing.


"If I have learned anything as a wizard it is this: never fight your own battles."
—Waffa, sorcerer of Nyomba
Most Quandrix students fundamentally disagree with the concept of "enough."


Those who don't learn from their deaths are destined to repeat them.
"Three heads, six arms, and some armor grafts are better than . . . the normal numbers of those things."
—Stitcher Geralf
"The element of surprise only works when it's backed up by a bolt between the eyes."

"For every living person there are generations of dead. Which realm would you rather rule?"
—Liliana Vess


In theory, the Guildpact keeps guild feuds from spiraling out of control. Personal feuds, however, are not covered.

"What I need is your blood. What I don't need is your permission."
"Don't try to hit your enemies. Concentrate on the space between them, and fill the air with doom."
—Spear-Tribe teaching

The hunt ends. Lunch begins.

The Battle of Tomakul taught Urza not to rely on fickle reinforcements.
"Sacrilege! A noble ally in life, made nothing more than a glorified kite in death!"
—Arna Kennerüd, skycaptain

Those who lead others to wisdom become the wisest themselves.

"They might be dead, but these mummies are masters of their trade."
—Jace Beleren
Held aloft by metabolized magic, trygons are ravenous for sources of mystic fuel.




"Tomorrow wears yesterday's face."
—Kordel the Cryptic

"Do not flinch from studying the horrors of the past. History's most important lessons are cloaked in terror and tragedy."
—Augusta, Lorehold dean
On Otaria, peace and harmony are rare. Places that provide both are cherished.
"The sun creates, sustains, and consumes so it can create again."
—Caparocti Sunborn




"We'll pay no more tribute to that tyrannical lizard. A new age starts today!"
—Mayor Kadrim, now deceased

"The taming and consecration of these creatures is evidence of our faith."
—Resimir, Zarichi Temple priest
To some the birth of the fifth sun was a sign of doom. To others it was a sign of salvation. But to all it was a sign.
Keeping a million-man army fed was no easy task. Grain and rice caravans were the lifeblood of the empire.
"Every bead tells a story. They speak of the obstacles we overcome. They speak of the communities we build, the milk we offer our friends, and the land that feeds our people. We weave meaning, tradition, and strength into everything."
It exemplifies the ideals of the Dromoka: strength, unity, and honor.
He wished for power, but not for the longevity to abuse it.


The forge of Purphoros burns in the heart of Mount Velus, attracting dragons with its blistering heat.
Some protection requires a bit of finesse.


Cast out of the Conclave generations ago, these elves found a home in the corrupted districts of the Golgari.
Each note strikes with deadly precision.
"Who you callin' 'shorty'?"
"Yavimaya is one being—one vastness of rippling leaves, one deepness of roots, and one chatter of animals—of which I am one part."
He will be your loyal champion, and his pack your protectors. All he asks for is a full belly, a spot by the fire, and all the love in your heart.
Young, yes. Inexperienced, yes. Weak? Don't count on it.
"Teferi snapped his fingers, and the viashino started clucking like a chicken. Silly, yes, but exactly the thing we needed to break the stifling tension."
—Jhoira, master artificer



Merfolk are best known for their subtle magic. But those who try to fight them in their own territory quickly realize that merfolk are hardly defenseless on the field of battle.
"When Serra made angels, people called her a goddess. My angels are far superior to hers."
—Latulla, Keldon overseer

The bones it buries may be yours.
The first satyr to wake after a revel must search for the site of the next one.
It started as a mere drop of water. The Magic Mirror crystallized it into much more.

"Our enemy is nothing less than the end of all life. We shall not want for allies."
—*The War Diaries*

"Approach from downwind. Tread with care. Aim for the heart."
"The lifespan of a wirefly can be precisely described as 'short.'"
—Bruenna, Neurok leader

"I don't know what takes them; they die around me without time to scream."
—Scout Ekemet, final journal

Unlike previous conflicts, the war between Urza and Mishra made Dominia itself a casualty of war.
He rose from the graf for every cobbler, tanner, and fool who'd been slaughtered in the parish@-and they rose and shambled after him.
"The time has come for us to throw off the chains of tyrannical gods and antiquated superstitions."
—Tikaia, disciple of Uremides
"The behemoths are content to graze like cattle, while dragons rage and conquer. I know which example I'll follow."

"My roots are ash, my heart a smoldering ember. What I could not protect, I will avenge."
"Would that I could be a Paladin again, but the dead hold no place among their ranks."
—Ihsan's Shade
Beacons along the borderlands are lit at any incursion from the wilds.
Zendikar is restless.

Once guarded by the Knights of the Reliquary, the tower stands now protected only by its own remoteness, its dusty treasures open to plunder by anyone.
"Your attack has been rendered harmless. It is, however, quite pretty."
—Saprazzan vizier

Despite being more cunning than most Orks, Kaptin Badrukk still recognizes that some plans just need more dakka.
Vorinclex had no grand plan. The oil did its own work, evolving creatures into worthy predators.

Mages often seek to emulate the powerful relics lost to time and apocalypse.


"Where did *you* come from?"
—Otarian hunter, last words
Its ventricles weep venom, and it consumes only poison.
"I pity them, never knowing the pleasures of a single familiar form, but at least they find a noble shape at times."
—Desmera, perfect of Wren's Run
"I may be small, but I can kick *your* butt."
Form and function in perfect unity.
Fallen Phyrexians were transmuted into elementals by Gaea long ago, but Yavimaya's other inhabitants still regard them with unease.
Next to her designs, life seems like a pale imitation.
Deep beneath the ruined continent of Otaria, there's a mine where goblins still work, ignorant of the destruction above.
After years of taunts and aerial assaults from Rankle's minions, the witches of Maraleaf Forest acquired new familiars.
The awards and medals of polis-dwellers mean nothing to griffins, but they repay acts of generosity.

"So the vulture said to the griffin, 'You gonna eat that?'"
—Azeworai, "The Ugly Bird"
Even after the wall was breached in half a dozen places, the Phalanxes fought on, standing solidly against the onrushing raiders. Disciplined and dedicated, they held their ranks to the end, even in the face of tremendous losses.
Many a besieged city has surrendered upon hearing the distinctive rumble of the juggernaut.
"Behind every devil's mayhem lurks a demon's scheme."
—Rem Karolus, Blade of the Inquisitors



"My faith is stronger than fang, claw, or mindless hunger."
A light to pierce the shadows.



Roilmages' tactics are as chaotic as the energies they channel.
As the Eternal's cold fingers tightened around his throat, Domri realized what kind of master he had rushed to serve.

"Rid me of this curse, witch, or die with me."
—Garruk Wildspeaker


The towers and catwalks of the Voldaren fortress are lit by the lanterns of geists endlessly seeking a way out.

"The Vanished must have sent it from beyond to aid us in this struggle."
—Kessla, Sylvok shaman

Bant is a world where death and chaos hold no sway.


"We are to be bound together as the reeds of a basket."
—Asmira, Rashida, and Jabari, unity chant

A foul, metallic stench clogged Urza's senses. It was then he knew his brother was no more.

"But high she shoots through air and light, Above all low delay, Where nothing earthly bounds her flight, Nor shadow dims her way."
—Thomas Moore, "Oh that I had Wings"
Kaito and Tamiyo charged headlong into Jin-Gitaxias's secret lab, unaware that the praetor was eagerly awaiting their arrival.

The finest maneuvers take place in three dimensions.

"I am not afraid to die today nor afraid of what death will bring."




The seed torches' pollen gives off light, but the elves find it heightens their senses as well.

"You don't find many old werewolf hunters."
—Paulin, trapper of Somberwald





"Either I know just the spell I need, or I'm about to."

With fewer patrols about, Kessig's roads have become prime hunting grounds.
Reminders of Memnarch's reign still skirr across Mirrodin, reminiscent of his form if not his power.

"The Selesnya are gathering armies. Do you still believe they aren't preparing for war?"
—Teysa, to Isperia

In the final days before the disaster, all the crabs on Tolaria migrated from inlets, streams, and ponds back to the sea. No one took note.
"You could say it was my pet project."
—Jhoira
He grants endless wishes, as long as you always wish for a blade.



"You're not setting foot in here. Not on our watch!"
Tovolar's howlpack had scattered, but the Dire-Strain survivors were still on the hunt.



Underneath the cities of Esper are cycles of life unseen by those who feed them.

"The refugees look at these structures with hope. We must relieve them of this burden."
—Juex, tormentor exarch

The dragons perching in Freejam's towers symbolize the zone's fierce independence.

"The bravest warriors take the shortest path to victory, whatever that path may be."
—Sakta, Atarka hunter

The arcane sphere that hovers near Magnus's staff imbues it with the power to transform enemies into mindless chaos spawn.
"The first rule of politics can be learned from a lowly hornbeetle: it is wise to cultivate powerful friends."
—Pythamon, sage of Meletis

Fragments of thought refract and multiply, surging in a geyser of dizzying insight.
"Right now you are a feeble stick, but I will help you grow some rings."
Sometimes even humble forest creatures were gifted with mighty emanations from the past.


The undisputed master of the mountains of Shiv.

In its heart lies the secret of immortality.
"Prayers will curdle on the tongue and be heard by rotting ears."
—Minaldra, the Vizag Atum
On Amonkhet, Gideon lost both his sural and his faith in himself. But he can still throw a punch, and he still knows a bad guy when he sees one.
"My commands shall echo forever in their dusty skulls."

"Monster or human, my rate's the same."
"The first wind of ascension is Forger, burning away impurity."
—*Keld Triumphant*

Elementals are ideas given form. This one is the idea of "smashitude."
Glory surged through her and radiance surrounded her. All things were possible with the blessing of the Divine.

"Her voice is justice, clear and relentless."
—Akroma, angelic avenger
"You can come back once you've learned some manners—and figured out how to reconstitute your physical forms."

The spell fell upon the crowd like a dragon, ancient and full of death.

"This armor transcends the limitations of mere flesh and bone."
The stench of rotting meat lures flies, goblins, and young raptors.

"Turns out the case of the flattened outpost and the case of the missing kitten *were* related."
—Endris, Drannith magistrate




"Impressive."
—Chandra Nalaar

The rotting metal feeds the necrogen mists, and in turn the mists feed the nim.
"Prayer rarely explains."
—Orim, Samite healer


With the fate of Innistrad uncertain, some seek solace in remote areas.

"The reflection of land interests me far more than its reality."
—Volrath

Though many think of Wolves as solitary predators, they are actually extremely social animals. During a hunt they often call to each other, which can be quite unsettling for their prey.
The gemini engines had lost connection with each other and wandered apart, developing an independent awareness of their surroundings.


"There are no obstacles, only different paths."

"The few of us who survived were denied entry to our camp for two days—so like the pox were the marks we bore."
—*Travelogue of Najat*


"No fact escapes me. Why do you think you can?"










"Ludevic saw it in a dream and set to work immediately, every detail already known. Can such genius be taught?"
—Stitcher Geralf
"Come one, come all! this rock shall fly From its firm base as soon as I."
—Sir Walter Scott, "The Lady of the Lake"



Drakes claim to be dragons—until the dragons show up.
Meletian mages can't claim the title of thaumaturge until they have received a gift or omen from the gods. Ephara likes to give tangible tokens of her favor.
Chains of leaping fire and sizzling lightning laid waste the artificers' handiwork, sparing not a single device.
Echoing hoofbeats can no longer be assumed to be help from the Gavony Riders.

Death stings the victim only once, but those left behind feel the pain of loss with every passing memory.
"Look what we fought for. Look what we built together."
An overwhelming sense of calm accompanies the gryffs that wheel above the roofs of Gavony.




Her plans may yet bear fruit.
"Let him in. He's on the list."
—Olrich, Rakdos club owner


They exist to cease.
The Accorders never strike first, but they always strike back.
Enchanters add layer upon layer of complexity to the world around them.



When defeat is near and guidance is scarce, all eyes look in one direction.



"You want that venom? Collect it yourself! I'm not losing another pair of dragonhide gloves."
—Old Rutstein

The battle began with an overwhelming wave of Tyranids and ended with Canoness Lucretia standing atop a huge pile of charred alien corpses.
"Blasted amateurs! Doesn't the queen think we can fight well enough on our own?"
—Avram Garrisson, Leader of the Knights of Stromgald



"So many have died in search of that map. And now it appears in the hands of the arrogant child Chandra Nalaar."
Only the most skilled budoka could protect the Okina Shrine. Only the best of these protectors took the night watch.







"The prohibition of unnecessary tossing of the citizenry by giants shall also extend to spontaneous giants."
—Isperia's Edict, provision VII.789.2

"It is useful to be able to speak to the trees. But it is truly wondrous to be able to listen to them."
"Don't worry, sweet brother. Help is on the way."
—Ghoulcaller Gisa

Gerrard's heart ached, recalling the living wreath Mirri laid for her dead kin. No such memorial was left for her in Rath.
You can always tell the evil one by the dagger he's sticking in you.
"What manner of fiend would design such a sadistic device?"
—Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi heretic



"Rule through fear, Darigaaz. Only if the dragons feel terror will they truly be your servants."
—Tevesh Szat
"I prefer a reality in which you are not."
All the books were dusty with disuse, save the one titled *Camouflage and Its Practical Applications*.
"Oh, I think I *will* get away with this."
"From a tiny doubt, the greatest fears grow and flourish. May the weeds of your mind be equally fruitful."



"When something dies, all things benefit. Well okay, just our things."
—Ezoc, Golgari rot farmer

Some see the world as a place of infinite wonder and knowledge. Some see it as an infinite dinner plate.
Tomorrow belongs to those who prepare for it today.
"I am my life's work."



"We speak the dragons' language of flame and rage. They speak our language of fury and honor. Together we shall weave a tale of destruction without equal."

"How can any Human hope to match our skills? We are children of Fyndhorn, and its sap runs in our veins."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, Elvish Hunter
"The art of war is turning obstacle to advantage."
—Jaeuhl Carthalion, Juniper Order Advocate
"From up here we can drop rocks and arrows and more rocks!" "Uh, yeah boss, but how do we get down?"

"I breathed deeply, and suddenly I knew not who or where I was."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter
The mouth must be pried open before rigor mortis sets in. Otherwise the returning soul can find no ingress.

Kerrick was to find that some borders can never be crossed.

"When the air burns, only death breathes deep."
—Bogardan mage
"The fishers will throw out their nets and draw them back filled with dust."
—Oracle *en*-Vec





The Crookshank military boasts a standing army of nearly twenty-four million, give or take twenty-two million.


Summer is buried there, centuries deep; A crypt of years where seasons sleep.

"I await your donation."
—Dasha, Orzhov priest


It takes no prisoners, but it keeps the choicest bits for Phyrexia.


Darkness doesn't always send its minions to do its dirty work.

"Greet death with sword in hand."
"If that brain can't figure out the secret of the serum, then add more brains."
—Rhmir, Hand of the Augur
"Her voice is justice, clear and relentless."
—Akroma, angelic avenger
A rootwalla's prey includes anything or anyone that wanders into view.


"Stay."


Sadly, the extent of Gerkk's healing knowledge was "don't pick at it."

Sharper than wind, lighter than air.

The sound of its plated tail beating on desert rocks is often mistaken for the footfalls of a much larger predator.

Otaria's last defense against the wave of chaos threatening to engulf it.
"O to be a dragon . . . of silkworm size or immense . . ."
—Marianne Moore, "O to Be a Dragon"
"You trespass on sacred ground, monster. Leave while you still can."

The path to knowledge is forged in hunger.
"This is the forest primeval. The murmuring pines and the hemlocks . . . / Stand like Druids of old."
—Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, "Evangeline"
"Hear that thud-clank, thud-clank? We're saved."
—Ani, Urzan soldier

Its elaborate designs reveal secrets of aether's flow.
"Were they to reduce us to ash, we would clog their throats and sting their eyes in payment."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain
The burglar turned, bowed, and dropped from the ledge onto her waiting mount.

A masterwork of spite, inspired by madness.
Once they realized the ogre had more size than speed, the soldiers simply went around it.

A talented apprentice makes all things. The master makes all things possible.



In times of infestation and war, Zendikar favors the blades that strike in unison.

"You are one of the few to whom we offer our blessing. What fool would reject immortality?"
—Runo Stromkirk

The finest soldiers aren't worth a whit without a set of hands to lead them and a set of eyes to guide them.
"No shirt, no shoes, no service."
—Marketplace sign

From a distance the weapons look pristine, but in fact they are tarnished and dented, each as unique as the champion who carried it to battle.










"The shadow travels toward the apex. I predict we will soon see the true measure of darkness."




"If one can associate any virtue with the eyeblights, it is the talent some achieve in disposing of them. I have seen the slaying of boggarts raised nearly to an art form."
—Fiala, Gilt-Leaf winnower
Both Boros and Azorius scout the games in hopes of recruiting the finest athletes.
For the first and last time, the horrific creature experienced terror.

Skilled merrow rudders ensure their charges arrive on time and without incident.


If you hear it, it's too late.
"Guard your thoughts. You never know who might wish to take them from you."
—Kalitas, Bloodchief of Ghet



the same astrological influences that govern individuals apply to companies, which are, after all, composed of people and legally considered person-like entities.


Trained in the arts of stealth, the royal assassins choose their victims carefully, relying on timing and precision rather than brute force.
Shapers adapt nature to fit their needs and then return it to the way it was, leaving no trace of their passing.




Hours after the Helvault opened, his powers returned twice as strong as before.
Where the geometries of the world collapse, a master of the aether can harvest power beyond comprehending.

"There are many different paths. The Great Teacher reveals them all."
Lorehold spirit statues are not forbidden from raising statues of their own.
"I tell you, the trees were closing in! It's by the grace of the Heron alone that I made it out of the Ulvenwald!"
—Ricton, traveling merchant
Up and down,
over and through,
back around—
the joke's on you.

When the hive must feed, every appendage becomes an additional mouth.
Ral Zarek's brainstorms bring actual thunder and lightning.
The route has been known for millennia, but only by those with no means to tell it.

"Don't you have somewhere else to be?"
—Sharuum the Hegemon
"Give me eight walkers, I'll give you the city."
—Dovin Baan
The maze-like design embodies the core of Azorius law@-strict structure designed to test wills and stall change.
"The Dryads told us to stay, as no new horrors would come when it was so cold. Three of us left anyway. The rest believed their lies, and their skeletons weren't found until the thaw."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry

The soul sheds light, and death is its shadow. When the light dims, life and death embrace.
—Nantuko teaching




The hunted can become the fiercest hunters.
"Justice isn't done until undeath is undone."
Every leaf, tree, and building in Kujar has been placed to achieve maximum harmony, in accordance with the elvish philosophy known as the Great Conduit.
"The Hand of Justice will come to cleanse the world if we are true."
—Oliver Farrel



"You have not died until I consent."

Today, she learns the basics. She'll knock out advanced theory later this week.

"Boom! Boom! Boots the size of oxcarts, then an axe like a falling sun. Elves scattered. Trees scattered. Even the hills ran for the hills!"
—*Clachan Tales*

"I do as I please, little mortal. Do go on about your wishes, though—they amuse me to no end."

"We plant the seeds of doubt to harvest the crop of wisdom."
"Don't worry, your death will be as informative as possible."
—Gorghul, augur of skulls





"The specimen seems to be broken."
Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.


"My soldiers know that they need never fear for their protection."
—King Darien of Kjeldor

In the warrior kingdom of Keld, the cats used in the hunt are prized for their tracking sense and ability to climb walls.



"It's cute now, but those things tend to get a lot bigger when you're not looking."
—Fahar, expedition wizard

A foul, metallic stench clogged Urza's senses. It was then he knew his brother was no more.
"Things were popping like corn in a skillet. Olly landed in the pig pen with his prize sow on top of him, both squealin' like boggarts."
—Deagan, cenn of Burrenton
Known for their glowing horn and stone-rattling roar, zheng are the fiercest predators in the forest. Few survived before Jiang Yanggu came.

In times when freedom seems lost, great souls arise to reclaim it.
Centuries ago, a quest to harness time became a spiral into chaos.

"Be like the sea: flow around that which is unmovable; for everything else, crash into it unrelentingly."

"His laugh, a bellowing, deathly din, slices through the heavens, making them bleed."
—*The Seer's Parables*
Disputes within the Brazen Coalition can escalate from insult to broadside in the blink of an eye.




"Your presumption is your downfall."
"Where will you run when I punish you with the very ground you flee on?"
—Nicol Bolas
"Jharic returned from Grixis changed, a haunted look in her eyes. She destroyed them with an unholy glee that made me shudder."
—Knight-Captain Wyhorn
His roots reach deep, nurtured not by soil and rain, but by millennia of experience.



A religious order for religious order.
The Blessed Sleep doesn't come easily to a mind chained by regrets.
Countless delights drift on the surface while dark schemes run below.

"Beauty to the eye does not always translate to the touch."
—Naimah, Femeref philosopher







"It must be infuriating, to pour so much rage into your assault and see it wasted. Perhaps you'll learn something from this."
"I'd rather fight on foreign soil. That way, if I lose I can blame it on the terrain."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*
"After the Rising, a treefolk's mind is as limber and green as its limbs, and is at its most receptive to our teachings."
It dwells happily near the ever-burning forges of Sokenzan City, crafting small things of beauty from discarded scraps.

"You have done your best. I give you leave to rest."

"Even a dragon is humble as a kitten if it thinks itself a slave."



Other birds collect twigs for their nests. Magpies steal jewels for theirs.


Though no longer attached to the hand, it still holds its adversary in its grasp.
A blossom's petals close inward to shut out the frost.
—Nantuko teaching
Suddenly, Eldo felt very alone.
"I understand your fears. I pity your doubts. I absolve you of both."

"Glory was gone; Glory was everywhere."
—*Scroll of Beginnings*
There are still places where a smile and a handshake are all you need to seal a deal.

"The world is a puzzle, and the mind is its key."





The Cho-Arrim didn't rely only on a secret location to protect their Fountain.
"Come to us, with your lightning. Come to us, with your thunder. Serve us with your strength, and smite our foes with your power."
—Steinar Icefist, Balduvian Shaman
Mercy is for those who keep their distance.

"The sun banishes darkness every morning. I too will rise with such assuredness."
—Huatli





Ur-golems once dominated the plane. Even now, they maintain a deep connection to it.





Ever since the ritual, Ryla didn't have an appetite at the dinner table, but her long walks in the forest always seemed to satiate her hunger.
Made of bone and boiled in blood, a Rakdos signet is not considered finished until it has been used as a murder weapon.

"Pray to Thassa for *what*? A bigger monster to eat it? A wave that can wash it away? What then?"
—Lindos, merchant of Meletis

Her boundless love has moved many. Her confidence has moved mountains.



A skilled Izzet chronarch can carry out an epic vendetta between the fall of one hourglass grain and the next.
Gerrard shook his head as the ground rushed to meet him. "This," he thought, "is not the start I was hoping for."

"Eldrazi? Ha! Try walking through Zulaport at night with your pockets full. Now *that's* dangerous."
Some say they are the weapons of heroes fallen in battle, eager for one last chance at glory.




"Everyone should owe you something."
—Geth, Lord of the Vault
"I can ail what cures you."
A drop of humanity for a sea of power.


Kruphix hid the most dire prophecies about humankind where humans would never find them and tritons wouldn't care to read them.
Gurley was the first to domesticate one, though his widow didn't take much solace in that accomplishment.

It turns prey into predator.

In life, they were a motley crew: farmers, lords, cutpurses, priests. In death, they are united in singular, benevolent purpose.


Each had seen friends and family taken by the corruption, so each carried an axe at the other's request.

The blood of the demons quickened as their master rose over the battlefield. The blood of the angels also quickened: here was the chance to finally end the war started millennia ago.

Glaciers, torrential floods, and temporal disturbances came and went. The mountains yet stood, unchanged.


"We thank the souleaters for inscribing our souls with subservience, to reinforce the sacred order."
—Drones' hymn of gratitude
Jund pulses with raw energy, waiting for shamans to shape it into useful form.

Gromp spores can be distilled into a variety of powerful chemical agents, or added to tea for a disastrous afternoon in the city.
Knight-Inquisitors of Saint Raban delve deep into mysteries best left unexplored.
"I craved enlightenment, and Crucius's etherium opened my eyes. I would share my sight with you, but first you must believe."


"The worthy shall rush to the God-Pharaoh's side with relentless zeal, rising to overcome every obstacle."
—Monument inscription

The void is without substance but cuts like steel.
It recruits the fresh and tosses the rotten.












When asked how much power is required, Izzet mages always answer "more."







A dwarf's grudge runs deeper than the mountains' roots.
Olka collected the evening mist for years, studying its secrets. Once she learned its essence, she could vanish with a thought.

The last thing to go through the cyclops's mind was a twelve-ton block of marble.
It's not a carpet moth, it's a feature.

Takara shook with guilt. She knew the last image her father had seen was her sword flashing toward him.





Those wound tightest are first to unravel.
Motivation was high in the academy once students realized flunking their exams could kill them.
Such loyalty can only be made.

Li'l Giri defeated the dastardly villain . . . or had he? Find out what is in store for our hero next time!
"Boom! Boom! Boots the size of oxcarts, then an axe like a falling sun. Elves scattered. Trees scattered. Even the hills ran for the hills!"
—*Clachan Tales*

"Humanity has always envied the power of flight. So we took it."
—Scytha, aeromage
The continent of Murasa lies beneath a blanket of dense vegetation, its enormous branches tangled so thickly that some inhabitants never see the ground.


"The Filigree Texts do not compel you to act in accordance with their precepts. They only specify the consequences should you fail."
—Lodus of the Ethersworn

"Overkill? This isn't a game of Kick-the-Ouphe!"
—Jaya Ballard, Task Mage

Greatness is forged in fire and fervor.




The dying ask for water because they know it contains life.

Thunder in the wind / no rain / peace mourns its passing.

"Your bravery honors us all."
—Dromoka, translated from Draconic


Though less well-known than its army of soldiers, the Boros Legion's mage-priests are as respected by the innocent as they are hated by the ghosts of the guilty.




"Open your mind to me."
"Our border lands fall under the grip of Heidar's second winter. Go forth and reclaim them for Yavimaya."
—Kaysa, elder druid of the Juniper Order


"The embers of our homes still smolder, and already the villages of Kjeldor burn in retaliation. What they have started, we will finish."
—Lovisa Coldeyes


Far from human eyes, birds flit between vivid blossoms in a hidden paradise.
"What will be has always been."
—Wall inscription

The very skies seethe with the aven's hatred for the Cabal.
"Infiltrate and infuriate!"
—Goblin Espionage League motto
"We've had a breakthrough on the fifth iteration. The subject's skin was entirely replaced within an hour, and he survived a full day after that!"
—Ashnod, to Mishra




From deep in the caves beneath the forest, the hierophants planned the druids' raids against the enemy.


It's not the most subtle incantation, but it gets the point across.



Snaking remnants of nature directed by a body of thought and progress, the oracles embody all that is Simic.
"Ooh—right in the colon."
"The weight of history can empower you or it can crush you. It's your choice."






To the kavu, all Phyrexians are merely crunchy snacks.







Beneath the waves, lost gods stir in their slumber.
"That is not the voice of the wind singing on the stones."
—Callaphe the mariner


Taking the form of a junior researcher, the first sliver slipped out of Riptide.
Weakness exists within all who are not dragons.
The Astrotorium is a zero-waste facility, meaning it deals with zero of its waste.


Little agonies pave the way to greater power.

"I thought the wind was ushering me to my final destination, but it lifted me to my feet and I fought on."
—Idrus, war priest of Thune

"This is the beginning of a beautiful friendship. And more importantly, a profitable one. Now sign here."
This cat has two lives and it's hunting for more.

That which endures, survives.
Idle chatter beckons many an attentive ear.

The question strained his sanity. The answer snapped it in half.





In the eastern reaches of Jamuraa are arrangements of massive stones. No one knows their origins—for certain.

"Crackle" and "pop" are the most wondrous sounds.
Only one vault was great enough to hold Emrakul.




"Stoke a fire hot enough and you'll never run out of things to burn."
—Xenagos, the Reveler

Many names and many memories bound together in grim purpose.
Akroma asked for only one thing from her troops: unwavering, unconditional loyalty.





"It's filthy work, planting them."
—Kifimbo, Shadow Guildmage
"Fine, you know more than me. But do you have to be such a show-off about it?"
—Chandra Nalaar, to Teferi

Once broken, who knows what worlds might grow from its shards?



"Safe passage requires only a simple answer to a simple question, traveler."


Inspiration strikes the uncluttered mind.
Some Ravnicans consider carrying a sword to be beneath them, preferring instead a tooth-and-claw escort.
"Never subtle nor cryptic is the reckoning of the mighty."
—Mayael the Anima
Anything sent into a plagued world is bound to come back infected.




"Do not let a single shaft loose until my word. And when I give that word, do not leave a single shaft in Eiganjo."
—General Takeno
"We consider rust a curable disease."
—Tarrin, Hammer-Tribe shaman
His family was the first to reach out to the human monks. He soon knew as many koans as he did blade strikes.

One breath of the geist turns veins to rivers of ice and freezes hearts midbeat.


Benalish citizens born under the same constellations share a star-clan. Their loyalty to one another interlaces the Seven Houses.
While the realm has laws, in the wilds there are other ways of balancing power.


"They are here, and they are hungry. And what they do not eat, they burn. Yavimaya is lost. We must leave now for Skyshroud."
—Edahlis, greenseeker

Roots reach deep, and sometimes they tap into things better left undisturbed.
"All knowledge, past and future, is etched upon reality. Every answer we seek is out there, hidden only by the limits of our minds."
—Jodah
Like the sun to a flower, the adoring gaze of the tribe is sustenance to an elf. To be shunned is to wither.


Every movement is a summons—even your screams.
Moving without sound, swift figures pass through branches and undergrowth completely unhindered. One with the trees around them, the Dryads of Shanodin Forest are seen only when they wish to be.
"You have done your best. I give you leave to rest."
"Phyrexians can't corrupt what they can't get close enough to touch."



"The stone is more potent than ever. The flesh that creeps into our land will become even more slovenly and weak."
—Niclavs, archmage of Esper

"Spring in Dominaria means pastels!"
—Excerpt from *Mage's Home Journal*


"I write upon clean white parchment with a sharp quill and the blood of my students, divining their secrets."
—Shauku, Endbringer



Some geists imitate the lives they left behind. Others follow the dreams they never realized.
"Stensia blazes with new heat. Nephalia's tides are chaotic. And everywhere, this unnatural frost. The land is sending a warning."
—Katilda, Dawnhart Prime

It's easier to move the village than to divert the wumpus.
At every fifth full moon, the Moon Market convenes to peddle Ravnica's most forbidden wares.


These beings embody the essence of true heroes long dead. Summoned from the dreamrealms, they rise to meet their enemies.



The Voldaren torture pits are so expansive that prisoners have a nasty tendency to be forgotten for years.
"Diplomacy has solved nothing. Only bloodspill can end this now. Call forth the warbringer."
—Basandra, Battle Seraph
Thievery requires subtlety, from the beginning of the heist to the end.







「彼らがあなたの宮殿を荒らそうとするなら、あなたが嵐にならなければなりません。」
—-帝国魔術の手引き
Her triumph came not from destroying the unnatural, but from fostering life.
All that's left is the coronation.


"This is the forest primeval. The murmuring pines and the hemlocks . . . / Stand like Druids of old." —Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, "Evangeline"
Every culture has its unlucky numbers. In a city where you're either alone, in a crowd, or being stabbed in the back, two is the worst number of all.
Action: Show a frog samurai who is a master swordsman. Skilled and agile, he stands about four feet tall and wields a daisho (see ref).


A barrier that shields privileged eyes from the city's woes.




As Mishra's army bore down on Terisia City, Corlo felt his focus, his patience, and his willpower twine together. With a deep breath, he plucked answers from the air.
The elite of Ojutai's brood, the skywise see their enemies as puzzles to be solved.


The crueler vampires' idea of free-range farming.

Rather than sheltering her young, the female fungusaur often injures her own offspring, thereby ensuring their rapid growth.
The Wall of Bone is said to be an aspect of the Great Wall in Hel, where the bones of all sinners wait for Ragnarok, when Hela will call them forth for the final battle.
The Moriok see the artificer as a taskmaster, forcing lazy metal into more potent shapes.

"Do not weep at your defeat, my dear. In death, you will serve a greater purpose—mine."

Rootlike fibers travel far from Mirrodin's metallic forests, emerging from the crust to drink in the mana-infused sunlight.


"I was wrong. Zendikar isn't after me. It isn't after any of us. It's not evil or vengeful. It's magnificent . . . but it's in pain."
—Nissa Revane
As the Eldrazi spread, no secret that could give Zendikar's defenders an advantage was considered too dangerous to seek.




"Who among you has the courage to face certain death? Who will heed my call?"
—Rayel Vanger, Firstblade of Thune
"Run home, cur. I've already taken your master's head. Don't make me thrash you with it."

Before her spark pulled her away again, the Emperor appointed the wise Light-Paws to guide Kamigawa in her absence.

"It is terrible how one brief action can live forever in memory."
—Jolrael
All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.





When Urza asked the viashino what it did, they answered: "It hums."


"As the rest of the mortal world waged war, Lady Azami and her students invaded tomes of knowledge. Their search yielded spells critical in the fight."
—*Observations of the Kami War*
"My left has felled a cyclops. My right has slain a giant. I bring both to every fight."




"One does not question the size or shape of the grains of sand in an hourglass. Nor do I question the temperament of the souls under my guidance."

Death has bound it with chains of past regrets. Forever it searches for atonement, each kindness removing a single link.



Only the Eldrazi mind thinks in the warped paths required to open the hedrons and tap the power within.
"A renegade rallying the rabble does not a true Crusader make."
—Irini Sengir
"This cogitator provides a strategic overview of the battlefield. By which I mean, of course, the entire planet."


All around the foundry, automatons unhitched themselves from their mounts and pivoted to face Chandra.
Bant is a world where death and chaos hold no sway.

"This vulgar mimicry will end now."
—Desmera, perfect of Wren's Run
Phyrexia had tried to take Urza's soul. He was relieved that Shiv tried to claim only his soles.
Market hucksters sell molochs for use as watchdogs. Of course, that's all molochs do. Sit around . . . and watch.


Seen through Rakdos eyes, a cruel betrayal is a hilarious stunt.
Beneath the waves, lost gods stir in their slumber.
Scarecrows only go so far in sending the message to stay away.
"It used to eat us trappers. Now it follows us around like some kind of hound dog."
—Alena, trapper of Kessig
"If you kids don't stop that racket, I'm turning this expedition around *right now!*"

The God-Pharaoh's angels stripped former initiates of their cartouches and the fortifying magic they provided.
The wise pay as much attention to what they throw away as to what they keep.
"Leshrac, my liege, grant me the power I am due."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer




Kith goats are just for practice. The real prize, of course, is a giant's cloudgoat.


When it ran out of bodies, it broke down the crypt door and sought new sustenance.
The lawmage served her a warrant as long as Niv Mizzet's tail. She thanked him, then used it as kindling to burn down his house.
"Think of this new life not as a gift from the angels but as a command to fight for their cause once more."
—War blessing of Serra
"Every choice is a joy."
Benalia has a complex caste system that changes with the lunar year. No matter what the season, the only caste that cannot be attained by either heredity or money is that of the hero.

The litany of the infernal on his flesh pulses to the beating of his dark heart.

"If a species will pay to be moved in a circle, I will find a way to let it."
—Myra the Magnificent



Some tides need no moon.

Sometimes the strongest weapon you can hold in your hand is another hand.
Chainer's insanity touched nearly every living thing—including viruses.

"Ah, this is a nice life. I can see why you were so desperate to keep it."
"Look to the north; there you will find aid and comfort." —The Book of Tal

"Why do we pray to the Ancestor? Because She listens."
—Mystic elder
The stench in the hovel was overpowering; something loathsome was cooking. Occasionally something surfaced in the thick paste, but my host would casually push it down before I could make out what it was.

It teaches *you* to play dead.





Ramos wept, and there were seas.
Sometimes the greatest strength is the strength of conviction.

"A crafter must imbue her weapon with part of her soul—something the Phyrexians are incapable of doing."
—Melira
The sly, stealthy warriors of the Slizt Clan survive by hiding in high ground and ambushing their enemies. Other Gruul call them skulkers and cowards, but only from a safe distance.
"If it is meant to be nothing but a machine," Karn finally asked Jhoira, "why did Urza build it to be like me?"
Most spiders wait patiently for their prey to arrive. Most spiders aren't forty feet tall.
Anyone can get around a cyclops, but few can stand in its way.

It counts down your last few moments of sanity.

"The wolves no longer hunt just to feed. They kill for sport, or for some madness behind their eyes."
—Elmut, crossway watcher
"The old gods awoke and sent fingers of fire to see what was left of the old ways under the endless city."
—Daiva, Gruul storyteller
"The Gitaxians whisper among themselves of other worlds. If they exist, we must bring Phyrexia's magnificence to them."


"Skyknight gear? Well, I have drake-skin gauntlets, supple and fireproof. Or a ceratok chestplate that'll stop a crossbow bolt."
A scavenger's favorite appetizer is death.

"If the prospect of what could be doesn't electrify you to your core, why attend Strixhaven at all?"
—Nassari, Prismari dean
"If you practice something often enough, it becomes part of you. That's why we train, and that's why we survive."
—Tasha, Graypelt veteran
"Day 1: These fox pups have really taken to me.
"Day 4: Big. So big. Need additional security."
—Jonald, mission naturalist, research notes


Beyond the chaos of Ghirapur lies a vibrant world where aether flows through nature.


"At first we thought we were in some haunted wood. Then the branches twisted and scuttled toward us."
—Merrik Aidar, Benalish patrol
"The bravest warriors take the shortest path to victory, whatever that path may be."
—Sakta, Atarka hunter



"My people are bound by masters centuries dead. Each artifact we destroy is another link broken in that chain."
—Barb Tail, viashino heretic

It shows not what you are but what you were.
The Minotaurs of the Hurloon Mountains are known for their love of battle. They are also known for their hymns to the dead, sung for friend and foe alike. These hymns can last for days, filling the mountain valleys with their low, haunting sounds.
"Your enemies may be cowardly, my lord, but one should never call them gutless."

"I alone am worthy to decide where lighting strikes."
—Hekaton, storm giant king

"I can think of *one* goblin it ain't so lucky for."
—Slobad, goblin tinkerer
"I care nothing for treasure. The land beckons me, and I cannot rest until my feet have touched every inch of it."

"Let nothing own the skies but the wind."
—Dejara, Giltwood druid
"Our guardian levies a tax on all traders. Wise travelers pay with a minimum of fuss."
—Qhattib, Vizier of Amiqat
"As I stepped into the star arch, it all became perfectly clear. Life and death are not opposites, but an endless path, twisting around and back upon itself, never ending and never beginning."
—Zhaer, professor of biophilosophy



As Phyrexians descended, Multani paused to reflect on the beauty that might never be seen again.
"The spirit of the stone is the spirit of strength."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
History may be written by the triumphant, but it's often rewritten by the troublesome.










It's not the two heads you should fear. It's the four fangs.
The power of aether draws creatures to it like a magnetic force, and those that are touched by it are forever altered.
We shall suffer turmoil equal to that which we have wrought, whether in this life or the next.
Late at night, when dreams touch a studious mind, bouts of inspiration strike.

"The greatest gift Dromoka gives is the ability to fly without wings."
—Urdnan, Dromoka warrior
Some tried cremating their dead to stop the ghoulcallers. But the dead returned, furious about their fate.
Another imminent battle subsided in busy snuffling and carefree rooting.





He protects Benalia as much with his reputation as with his force of arms.
Some storms never blow over.
"Though you may leave this haven we have found, may our strength never leave you."
On the third night, the villagers destroyed their clocks. The sounds of whirring gears and chiming metal held only dread for them.

"No matter how much a plane has suffered, there is a way to restore it."
—Nissa Revane

A warcaller merely brings the herd together. After that, the meat-hunger is all the encouragement they need.
It nurtures its masters' glorious future.

Sometimes death comes knocking. Sometimes it tears down the walls.

When the last scrap of flesh is scoured away, the Curse of Wandering ends. Then the dead may sleep.
"Greet death with sword in hand."
"Once we have claimed this planet, we will claim the stars."
Those who say you only live once have never been touched by the Cauldron of Eternity.

Danger often lurks in the allure of crystal shards.




It moves through the tunnels as slowly and surely as the shifting stones.
Water, barley, yeast, darkness—the tavern cellar had everything a growing mold could need.
The fearful want the procedure before a blood festival. The guilty seek it afterward.
"Achieving perfection is simple. Watch, I'll do it twice."
—Mishra






Wherever it walks, famine follows behind.

"I never give odds on my own fights. Unless, of course, you want to bet *against* me . . ."
All they found in the hunter's camp were tiny paw prints and a lot of blood.


"What good is having all the right answers if you have them at all the wrong times?"

"In conclusion . . ."
It reeks of terror and chaos.


"Beings of the rifts are not natural. No longer will these abominations tread upon the body of Gaea."
"True strength lies in action. Let the weak react to me."
—Kamahl, pit fighter
Taj-Nar, throne of Raksha Golden Cub, destined leader of the leonin prides.

"We are goblinkind, heirs to the mountain empires of chieftains past. Rest is death to us, and arson is our call to war."
Stone to endure, roots to remember.
All must fall, and those who stand highest fall hardest.
The Frogtossers thread feathers, bones, and trophies from past raids into their standards, believing they fuel the warren with the anger of its victims.
The animal and vegetable categories kind of merged over time.
"There are some who have lost everyone and everything. They actively seek out the Eldrazi, eager for the smallest measure of vengeance."
—Munda, ambush leader


Like a volcano, it too can erupt without warning.


Such power protects the body with the strength of the soul.
Cephalids whisper flattery in your ear, put jewels in your hand, spin dreams in your head, and stick knives in your back.
"Within every angel is a spirit of light that will fight as long as there is darkness."
Nature grows solutions to its problems.

"I have been a warrior for over four hundred years, and yet each generation of Kjeldorans teaches me new tricks. There can be no better allies."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, Elvish Hunter



"My pet will pick the ripe fruit from your tortured brain as if it were hanging from a vine."
—Kaervek

"Assume everything wants to kill you. At the very least, assume everything wants what's in your pack."
"The sight of my thallids still thriving is a bittersweet welcome to this cold waste."
The chill wind extinguishes flame, and frosts the leaf on the branch.


Her centuries-long search is ended.
For the first time in his life, Grakk felt a little warm and fuzzy inside.
The Auriok see the artificer as a conduit, beckoning new creations into the world.
What its gaze doesn't wither, its breath surely will.



Their arrows are tipped with basilisk eyes and fletched with cockatrice feathers.

After the fall of Sea Gate and the draining of the Halimar basin, the crab set off to find a new home.
Heavy light flooded across the landscape, cloaking everything in deep crimson.
When the Brotherhood of Gix dug out the cave of Koilos they found their master's severed hand. They enshrined it, hoping that one day it would point the way to Phyrexia.



Olka collected the evening mist for years, studying its secrets. Once she learned its essence, she could vanish with a thought.



A few gnawing thoughts can eat at the mind until nothing else remains.



Gold buys death. Death earns gold.


Interlopers in Sultai territory usually end up as crocodile chow or baboon bait.

"This is why I hate settlements. They lull you into a false sense of security."
—Yon Basrel, Oran-Rief survivalist
After the rape of Argoth Forest during the rule of the artificers, the Pixies of Argoth bent their magic to more practical ends.
Those who cross the Dimir find enemies everywhere they turn.
Take away a few things, and a rebellion may ensue. Take away everything, and the oppression will be accepted as fate.
"If you think yourself a chief, then prove your might."
—Gar-Tun, Mistvalley silverback

His spark lost, he plots revenge upon the plane whose corrupting mana fractured his soul.

The first goblin tried to swim the canal. The second built a raft. The last and craftiest goblin launched herself from a firecannon and soared over the canal, trailing smoke. All were eaten, but only one was cooked.
Final grades are posted on the first day of class.

It readily attacks much larger prey, knowing retaliation is impossible.


"Every dream is a doorway."



"Works every time! Well, every time they don't explode, anyway."
—Barton, stitcher



Avacyn's holy warriors kept hope alive in her darkest hours. Now they will carry that hope across Innistrad.
The gatekeepers are so fastidious that even the winds must wait to pass.




"Tools and artisans can be destroyed, but the act of creation is inviolate."
—Elspeth Tirel

"We must all hang together, or assuredly we shall all hang separately."
—Benjamin Franklin
"There are many kinds of duty, and mine is to see our world grow and endure."

As the foul beast appeared, arcane lightning crackled around it.


Its collapse is like the lashing out of a long-dead civilization that resents being forgotten.



"I will tell my father's stories . . . . How the elephants trampled the leopard cub, and its father, though he knew, killed nine goats instead."
—"Love Song of Night and Day"






A deafening roar arose as the fury of an enormous vertical river supplanted our serenity. Eddies turned into whirling geysers, leveling everything in their path.



Help us . . . R&D under mental domination of alien brain in jar . . . only chance . . . Gleemax's blatant disregard for flavor text . . . send help!

"By the time your knees have worn through your robe, you may have begun to learn your place."
The vedalken interrogate all intruders—once the hoverguards are done with them.
Every branch a crossroads, every vine a swift steed.

"Do not go there, do not go / unless you rise on wings, unless you walk on hooves."
—"Song to the Sun," Femeref song


Stripped of his sight, he was free to see only the ideal.


Being engulfed is just the beginning of the nightmare.
An avatar he sculpts of instinct and force.


Sometimes gestures of support are small. Sometimes not.
A wall built from the bodies of the enemy will never lack building material in times of war.








As the assassins converged on Kitt Kanto, she struck a high note and held it, unbroken, for nearly a minute. When the room fell silent, she was surrounded only by rose petals falling gently to the floor.
Gerrard savored a grim smile as the Phyrexian portals disappeared behind the *Weatherlight*.

His marvels of artifice pale in comparison to the developing machinery of his mind.







Made to ward off the Grim Captain and silence the lure of undeath.
The demons took no captives and claimed no spoils; they sought only to destroy.
The spikes of bone protruding from its hide serve primarily as protection, but as they accumulate bits of foliage from the surrounding forest, they also provide camouflage.
Young artificers on Kaladesh let their imaginations run wild.
"The toads of Urborg aren't fast, powerful, or pleasant, but they have their uses."
—Ertai

Lands ravaged, cities in ruins, so many lives sacrificed, and yet there was no other word for it but victory.


"The awestruck birds gazed at Wonder. Slowly, timidly, they rose into the air."
—*Scroll of Beginnings*
The giant was felt a few seconds before he was seen.
After losing several of the devices to midair collisions, Greven forbade moggs from operating telethopters.

"My eyes are my strongest feature."

"Once I saw a goblin shouting at a thunderstorm. He lost the argument pretty quickly."
—Wandering mage
The Vanto Beatdown began as an improvised dance-battle at the Rose Room lounge. When word spread of how many were slain at the first event, it became a citywide obsession.
Many elves incorporate the beauty of nature into their inventions. Very few capture its savagery.
The ancient green dragon Claugiyliamatar is often seen with a mangled corpse dangling from her mouth.



"Lay sacrifice to the godsire that it may spare us, but save some for his progeny who also will hunger."
—Syeena, elvish godtoucher





"Until all have found their place, I will keep watch."
"The Harpers' movement grows, but it needs sunlight to blossom. We can be that light."

"Verdant bloom does exist. It merely hides for its own safety."

The message was clear to Sorin—Nahiri had paid Markov Manor a visit.
Neither predator nor prey, the elephant chooses its place in the battle.
Possession is ten-tenths of the law.

"Pained defiance or shameful surrender—every reaction is a pleasant surprise."
—Tibalt
You may as well try to swat a faerie
—Flamekin expression meaning "that's impossible"


Liliana learned the secrets she sought, but at a price that was etched on her fate.

The sky takes flight and the earth trembles.


"I've been all over this world. I even remember some of those places."


"Dragons in the skies of Tarkir—for the first time, it feels like my home."
—Sarkhan Vol
The calm comes after the storm.
"Not again!"



"I am sewer-king!" said Rat. "I am quick and cunning and I know every tunnel."
"No, I am king!" said Zombie. "I am cold and deadly and no rot can harm me."
Then Croc came and ate them both.
There are few ways to escape the deathmark: bargaining with a demon, washing in the fabled waters of youth, and of course, death.
When the mighty sleep, the lowly prowl.
A void as cryptic as reality itself.



It skitters across Shiv, each tendril hitting the ground with a sharp snap.



It always knew it was destined to be more than a frog.
True power is achieved through blood and sweat. But mostly blood.

None can find what hasn't been lost.
—Nantuko teaching


As the Wu chief commander, Lu Meng conquered Shu-held Jingzhou in 219 by disguising soldiers as merchants on boats filled with hiding troops.


"Approach my tower on bended knee or depart from it as ash upon the wind."
—Gadwick, the Wizened
"You have a family. Mine died at Sea Gate. You go to yours, and I'll go to mine."
"It's as much of a trick of the mind as it is a trick of the eye."
"A horrible sight, yes, but the sounds . . . Its twanging tendons and grinding gears are almost musical."
—Brudiclad, Telchor engineer



Only the Eldrazi mind thinks in the warped paths required to open the hedrons and tap the power within.


"Come now, dear brother. If you wanted rules, you should have called it a _game_, not a _war_."
—Gisa, to Geralf
She's always willing to lend a hand. It just won't be her own.
Whether trained, ridden, or eaten, few goblin military innovations have rivaled the bug.
"In the gathering there is strength for all who founder, renewal for all who languish, love for all who sing."
—*Song of All*, canto 642
Izzet brains and Izzet boilers: contents under pressure.



"Just think how strong I'll be if my arms don't tear off!"



"I feel your pain. It's exquisite."
"Strength it has, but at the cost of a continuous supply of energy. Such failure can bear only one result."
—Execution order of Endrek Sahr, master breeder

"See that cloud that hangs around it? More than a minute in there and you'll be bleeding out of places you didn't even know you had."
—Captain Ascote
"'Technologically-Advanced People-Pleasing Entertainment Robot', eh? Nice hat. Would be a shame if something happened to it."
—"Brims" Barone, midway mobster
The Falkenrath progenitor was a vicious falconer, and the line is quick to remind others of its heritage.



On Otaria, peace and harmony are rare. Places that provide both are cherished.
"All struggles ultimately require sacrifice. It's just that some sacrifices are dearer than others."
—Jaeuhl Carthalion, Juniper Order Advocate

Only one Eldrazi stood against them, yet the defenders were outnumbered.
"They are called Eternals. They will never stop."
—Jace Beleren

"The power that flows here cannot be denied. But where is the source?"
—Nissa Revane


The Temur believe three things only are needed in life: a hot fire, a full belly, and a strong companion.


"The Lord of the Wastes must be destroyed; I am bound to this destiny by the chains of fate. If only Gerrard would see his part."
—Sisay, journal
His presence brings not only a strong arm but also renewed hope.
At last Urza's powers were focused through the incredible artifact. "Who wants pancakes?" he asked.
Sometimes a curious giant singles out a "little one" to follow for a few days, never realizing the effect it will have on the little one's life.



"Those wings are no advantage. I will pin them to the ceiling of the Hekma."

"To be in the presence of a revoker is to be truly alone."
—Kara Vrist, Neurok agent
It's not the size of the rock. It's how badly you want to lift it.
All things considered, his first day on patrol could have gone better.
Their fury scatters enemies like a pile of dry leaves.

Of royal blood amongst the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti Djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.


Hunger makes a leucrocota dangerous. A full belly makes it angry and dangerous.
"Find out whose that is. I like its energy."
—Judith

Even the lost and undead need a protector.




Having charted their way up the difficult face, the two mountaineers had to contend with the mountain's decision to stand up.
There are worse ways to die, but not many.

The fearful want the procedure before a blood festival. The guilty seek it afterward.
The worst part isn't the pain, or the smell, or even the fear of death. It's hearing the clatter of bone on stone and knowing the bones are yours.


They're fun to train—if you like stubborn, aggressive, and fiercely territorial.

While it possesses potent venom, the Giant Spider often chooses not to paralyze its victims. Perhaps the creature enjoys the gentle rocking motion caused by its captives' struggles to escape its web.
"Her weapon's impressive, sure. But you should see her wield it."
—Gred, expedition warrior

Waterways carve their routes through the land to reflect the paths the aether streams cut through the clouds.





It wails of buried riches and the souls lost seeking them.
"If you've got words, we're going to have words."



Occasionally a member of the Institute of Arcane Study acquires a taste for worldly pleasures. Seldom do they have trouble finding employment.
An artificer once dropped one in a vault full of coins. She has yet to find it.
"If you're in our home, we expect you to mind your manners."








Forever restless. Forever growing in number.
"Shiv hatched from a shell of stone around a yolk of flame."
—Viashino myth
"Beware the seagrafs just off the shore. These waters are filled with hungry geists looking for an easy meal."
—Captain Eberhart

Even the thrums, the lowliest of slivers, become deadly in its presence.

As the flames engulfed her, Chandra opened her heart and offered up her greatest regrets to be consumed by the inferno.
"Permission to haunt aboard, cap'n?"
Into the light the good are welcomed, and with the light the evil are banished.
Greed and gluttony led him to death. Now they are his greatest assets.
The Eastern Paladin doesn't attack at night for the tactical advantage. He does it for the sheer joy of fighting beneath the moon.
He bids his minions rise from their graves to their knees.
The Azorius have so many codes and statutes that you're always in violation of one of them.
"'Tis distance lends enchantment to the view,/ And robes the mountain in its azure hue."
—Thomas Campbell, "Pleasures of Hope"
"Quell your ego and anywhere can be as calm as a hurricane's eye."


"I welcome the use of even the foulest magic if it will rid us of the monstrosities that plague our world."
—Munda, ambush leader

"My cause is simple: To stop you, at any cost, from ever seeing the inside of this keep."



When Raganorn unsealed the catacombs, he found more than the dead and their treasures.

Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.
The aethersphere is home to the most wondrous beings on all of Kaladesh, although the dangers of traversing it mean that not much is known of them.
Lavabrink's boiling moat is a deterrent for most, and a relaxing bath for one.

Forged by divine hands to wander mortal realms.
"Crovax knows we're coming now," said a grinning Sisay. "I just sent the *Predator* crashing into his stronghold."
Having conquered the Bastion of Suns, the Ota took its light for their own.


Fields of battle turn to fields of grain.

"Like our guild itself, this locket can stand for many things. You must discern what it means for you."
—Vannifar
"Plans evolved within the tent decide a victory 1,000 *li* away."


"You won't need the sword drills, your shields, or my blessing. You'll fight for Sunhome with the truth in your heart."
—Aurelia

The barrier between existence and oblivion is thinner than you know.
Where Razia was aloof and untouchable, Aurelia is on the frontlines, calling for war.


As Barrin exhumed his daughter's body, he finally realized the full price of his faith in Urza.


Enter those with the vision to create and the daring to release their creations.


2019 Asia Legacy Champion
"Rest now. You've neither won nor lost, but this battle is over for you just the same."
—Teferi
"There will come a time when the voices of soil and seedling will sing only laments."
—Oracle *en*-Vec
"If there can be no victory, then I will fight forever."
—Koth of the Hammer
Crovax hungered for power, and the stronghold devoured the sky.
The imps' warbling cries echo through Phyrexia's towers like those of mourning doves in a cathedral.


"No one petal claims beauty for the lotus."





Some say magic was first practiced by women, who have always felt strong ties to the land.







The Shifting Wastes provide refuge to those who know where to look for it.
As the Eldrazi spread, no secret that could give Zendikar's defenders an advantage was considered too dangerous to seek.

"Ach! Hans, run! It's the lhurgoyf!"
—Saffi Eriksdotter, last words
The voice of an angel. And the face of an angel. And the legs of... you get the idea.

Llanowar covers a million square miles, yet nobody enters the forest without the elves knowing it.
"'Tis the set of sails, and not the gales, Which tells us the way to go."
—Ella Wheeler Wilcox
An aetherborn wastes neither time nor treasure.
"Do not fire upon it—it is bad luck. And a waste of arrows."
—Alera Benath, Kalonian ranger

The harvest god's cornucopia contains the fruits of the fields, the forest, and beyond.






"You stop breathing for just a few minutes and everyone jumps to conclusions."
—Zarkuu, necrosavant

Every once in a while, when they aren't getting incinerated in lava, crushed under rock slides, or devoured by dragons, goblins experience moments of unmitigated glory in battle.

The first thing a Quandrix mage learns is the laws of metaphysics. The second thing is how to break them.
"That bear's been there since the Astrotorium opened. I've seen it move."
—Ernst, deep fry cook
"There is no calamity greater than lavish desires. . . . And there is no greater disaster than greed."
—*Tao Tê Ching 46*


The more his flock fears, the more power he wields.

As you trudge through the sewers of Baldur's Gate it dawns on you: where are all the rats?

"Monsters dwell in every heart. We only think civilization tames them."
—Euphemia, Nexus watcher
Sand into glass and flesh into ash—such are the markers of its domain.

Yargle hadn't bargained on her showing up.
A body Returned, a soul still lost.
Unaware of Lorwyn's diversity, it sees only itself, reflected a thousand times over.
Jund is a world as cruel as those who call it home. Their brutal struggles scar the land even as it carves them in its image, a vicious circle spiraling out of control.
The foolish try to leap through the unlit spaces. The arrogant believe the fires harmless. The wise find a different door.
In the memories of those they lost lies the strength needed to defend their city.



For Mittens, it was just another day at the beach.

He relishes the devotion of his Skirsdag puppets and their belief that it will earn them immortality.



Wracked and warped with anguish, it obsessively seeks out other souls to hoard within its eternal prison.
Rainclouds don't last long in Shiv, but that doesn't stop the lightning.
Reason exposes deception.
"Well, at least it left us a mouse in exchange. Er . . . ugh . . . make that half a mouse."
—Binhald, Beskir veteran
Action: We'd like you to design Sythis, a legendary green- and white-aligned female dryad who's closely tied to Karametra, the god of the harvest (p.26)


It claws at the earth in a vain attempt to reclaim what it once was.

「プレインズウォーカーは皆、多元宇宙の驚異的な広大さに初めて精神が触れたときのことを覚えているわ。」
—-カズミな
Drakes prowl the skies of Kaladesh, waiting for the perfect moment to strike.
Her knack for tampering with wards got her kicked out of the academy, but they also got her back in.



The ogres you know are nothing like the Onakke. Possessing both intellect and industry, they had brute strength without being brutish.
"There's something peculiar about the rain today."
—Janoc, Tin Street tinker

"Inside these walls, peace; outside, sharks. You choose."
—Saprazzan vizier

"Light can lay bare our fears. It can also make them go away."
—Nazra of the Stone Havens
"I can't think with all that screaming."

She remembers every word spoken, from the hero's oath to the baby's cry.
"The hardest thing is finding the right ingredients."
Plant life in the valley changes for the worse as runoff from dwarven forges contaminates the water.
"We will fight as they do: our flesh protected behind metal."
—Tae Aquil, Viridian weaponsmith



"These alleys are not safe. Come, I can guide you back to the market square."
Bhaal's mortal children carried within them a darkness that, left unchecked, would devour them all.


"The wild tangle of the Cowl provides sanctuary to life that watched the first buildings rise."
A well-made homunculus grooms the mind of its master, pruning the thoughts that lead to madness. Few loredelvers survive the study of the infinite without one.
"Knowledge of Bant's landscape and ruins is a weapon that the invaders can't comprehend."
—Elspeth

"New growth applies a healing poultice to wounds long scabbed over."

"Evil will soon be vanquished. What Innistrad most needs now is healing."
"When you run you're graceful and swift, sleek as a powerful panther."
—"Love Song of Night and Day"
"Duty and law are the foundation on which civilization stands. They must not fall, for when they do, they take everything with them."
—Lord Konda
Nightscape masters don't stop at raising the spirit of a fallen battlemage. They raise the flesh along with it.
The gorilla beat its chest and threw great handfuls of leaves into the air. It howled challenge and showed its teeth. The mechanical soldier, not understanding, simply killed it.
Blessed with many options, Thornscape masters favor scarabs as familiars.
On darkness feeding, in nightmares breeding.








Etched on its surface are warnings from a long-lost race of ur-golems pushed to the brink of extinction.


"Whatever the Eldrazi's purpose is, it has nothing to do with something so insignificant as us."
—Nirthu, lone missionary
"This world was once so much more than the confines of Naktamun."

Were she not a judge, she'd win the division herself.

"Hi!ni!ya! Behold the man of flint, that's me! / Four lightnings zigzag from me, strike and return."
—Navajo war chant

The only casualties were a snapped spear, a lost helmet, and some bruised egos.
The dead know lessons the living haven't learned.

A mastodon's path always leads to an oasis.


"We decide who is worthy of our works."
—Gix, Yawgmoth praetor

If you feel the ground quake, run. If you hear its bellow, flee. If you see its teeth, it's too late.

It drinks fatigue.
"There was clearly a scream. I'm not sure if there was a mouth."
—Sachir, Akoum Expeditionary House
She paints pictures with words, though not all pictures show the truth.



"The longer the journey, the more one learns."
—Isanke, Halimar seastalker
A gleam like struggling sunlight penetrated Selenia's dark thoughts.

Savage vampires lurk in the Erdwal's network of passageways where prey is plentiful and easy to catch.

"Do try to keep an open mind, would you?"

"The white fox grinned. 'How about a bet, dragon? If I win, the skies are mine.' After he stopped laughing, the dragon agreed."
—*Tales of the Fae*
Keldon warriors don't need signals to tell them when to attack. They need signals to tell them when to stop.
When battling the Kolaghan, consider yourself lucky if lightning strikes the same place only twice.
"I could see in the other mage's eyes that he'd thought of it too. Then it became a race to exploit the knowledge first."
Swarms of bats poured from Lurenbraum Fortress carrying wedding invitations to vampires of every bloodline.
"There will come a time when the voices of soil and seedling will sing only laments."
—Oracle *en*-Vec
"Blood drips. Blood sings. Blood devours all and only blood remains."
—Ogre chant
Metal is scarce, smiths are pricey, and plate mail is heavy.

Scholars in their ivory towers call them "sharks of the sky." Scholars on the road don't call them at all.

Life is such a fragile thing.
"We've not seen one of these on the podium for many seasons. Such magnificent posture and the perfect amount of telltale odor."
A weapon of darkness for a warrior of light.

"The skald boasted that he could outsing the sea. Cosima heard him, and drowned his village with a single wave."
—*Longbeard Saga*









For Sarkhan Vol, the dragon is the purest expression of life's savage splendor.
"You'll bend to my will—with or without your precious sanity."
So swift and sharp was his blade that the ogre never even felt the cut.


Buildings crumbled and monuments fell. The river bled and the sky wept tears of fire. All the while, servants silently continued their work, oblivious to it all.

Most wars are won not by those with the best tactics or truest cause but simply by the ones left standing.
War prisoners were ineffective political pawns, as neither brother cared enough to trade for them.

Mage-students who see spellcraft as the highest form of expression choose Prismari, the college of elemental arts.


The pirates had left the open sea behind, but they were still in their element: reckless adventure.
Frost giants carry the trophies of their greatest victories into battle, fashioned into armor of strength and savage beauty.
The longer it soars above the shimmering swirls of the Quicksilver Sea, the more it adopts their unpredictability.
The eyes let flow with tears, then blood, then the very soul—the whole wrung inside out, dripping down into the blackened puddle of the past.

As their supplies of etherium dwindled, mechanists sent gargoyles farther and farther afield in search of salvage.


Don't mistake isolation for safety.

"When I was a child, we worried about picking the wrong mushrooms for the cook pot. Now we must worry about being picked ourselves."
—Halana, Kessig ranger



"The greatest gift Dromoka gives is the ability to fly without wings."
—Urdnan, Dromoka warrior
"My greatest creation—me!"

"When the land is angry, so are they."
—Nissa Revane

Rumors quickly spread among thieves about a labyrinth without walls and a prize beyond all measures of worth.
After watching the kor in battle, Gideon understood the difference between working together and working as one.






To the sorrow of all, its web became a net that strangled those who helped weave it.
At Red Cliffs, Kongming and Zhou Yu each wrote his plan for defeating Wei on the palm of his hand. They laughed as they both revealed the same word, "Fire."
"What could be funnier than one big pie to the face? Unless . . . no. Could it be that simple?"
—Pietra, Crafter of Clowns


"Moonlight offers sublime warmth that brings me a comfort sunlight cannot provide."


"Enough!"
"With just a little added flair, your work could be truly spectacular. Let me show you."
—Nassari, Prismari dean

"I do not miss Jukai Forest. It is not my home. My home is Kamigawa, its people my family. Wherever I set my pack and rest my head, I am home."
"Control to Truss. Chief, the entry scan software is reading babies as hot dogs. Again."
—Glaxxar, engineering assistant
Voyager staffs are sought by those hoping to find an escape from the sprawling glut of Ravnica.


"I do not reject the gods. I reject their authority, their pettiness, and their arrogance."
The most terrifying zombies are those with just a hint of their old selves left.

Your entire life passes before its eyes.
"Savagery is the birthright of every creature that draws breath—or wishes it could."
—Karador, Ghost Chieftain




"Even if we dislodge them, I fear these lands will never again yield crops."
—Kimmick, vanguard knight
It's revered for its power, celebrated for its grace, and feared for the avalanches triggered by its thunderous feet.
They are trained from hatching to deliver aid where it is needed most.
Conjured from the bowels of hell, the fiery wall forms an impassable barrier, searing the soul of any creature attempting to pass through its terrible bursts of flame.

Like blinking or breathing, responding to an alarm is an involuntary reflex.

It evades Phyrexians by hiding in the spaces between seconds.


"Greedy vault guard, wouldn't share. Now there's Halo in your hair!"
"Now!"

"If it is bigger, you must be faster. If it is stronger, you must be sharper. Anything less, and you will never seize a place in our God-Pharaoh's perfect afterlife."
—Rhonas, god of strength





Azorius military tactics, like their legal tactics, capitalize on delay and nullification.


The Brazen Thunder, foremost of the bloodcrusher legions, are named for the sound they make as they ride into battle.
"Please, honored friend, take it with my compliments. I insist."

It strode through the clash of dragons, the fall of Ugin, and the rise of the khans.
Takara banishes the shadow of her father's ignoble reputation through the dedication, plain speaking, and swift action of a warrior. By refusing Starke's path of self-interest and opportunism, she has learned what he never will know: the value of sacrifice for a worthy cause.


That which endures, survives.
With no jungle left to contain it, the "plague of daggers" spread across Dominaria.

Silumgar never passes up an opportunity to add to his opulence.

"I know its lightness, for I have seen it fly. I know its weight, for I have seen it strike."
—Brigone, soldier of Meletis




Energy surges in Izzet labs are opportunities for experimentation.
If taken, it cuts the hand that clutches it. If given, it heals the hand that holds it.

A child's porcelain doll went missing one night, as did a pair of kitchen shears and the town magistrate.
Transformed from brute to cute.
As sharp as its bearer's words of faith.
Her rallying cry reaches far beyond the Tajuru elves, inspiring all those who hear it.
"If you want them dead, buy some poison. If you want them to have the worst day of their life before dying, then let's talk price."

The ur-golem etchings begin by celebrating Mirrodin's creator, a golem of almost limitless power. They end by cursing its protector, a being called Memnarch.
Wine and balm for the confessions of the repentant. Razors and irons for the confessions of the unrepentant.
Entry 711: There's more to Avacyn's madness . . .
When times are tough, the poor eat the rats. When times are tougher, the rats eat the poor.
"It looks expensive, doesn't it? You have no idea..."
—Milana, Orzhov prelate


Some emeritus professors return from their wanderings periodically to share tales of the mystical wonders of Arcavios.

From the cracks in the stone, she reads stories of the past. From the swirling vines, she glimpses visions of the future.

Goblins were first to see the potential of hedrons in the fight against the Eldrazi, for the magical stones came ready-made with pointy bits.
"It was right here a second ago . . ."
A capable mage can tune its focus, refracting mana through each disk in turn to cast any spell they desire.
"My predecessors taught me of duty and commitment. It seems they have more to teach."
—Wendin, veteran cathar




In beauty-obsessed Lys Alana, one cut of her blade means the difference between a high society feast and raking through the dungheap for scraps.



He'd chosen a sunlit clearing with open skies and an ample brook. All that remained was to find a worthy sapling.


All the curiosity of the Neurok with only a trace of their duplicity.


Less housebroken than housebreaking.

A blazing light to drive out the shadows.

"Time for the Iron Alliance to remind the qadir's army how inhospitable the Sword Marches can be."

"Bitter water, vicious wave;
Shadow-cold shallows, root-made maze.
Home's angry embrace."
—Rootwater Saga



With every end, a new beginning.
Before you travel the woods of Kessig, first get permission from those who died trying.

"What's the worst that can happen?"
"Must not all things at the last be swallowed up in death?"
—Plato
"The union of sea and sky makes a perfect cover."
—Talrand, sky summoner
A snap of fingers, a snap of teeth.
Restless Riveteers can always find a sparring partner in the sprawling Treza warehouse.




Magic written across the sky falls like rain on thirsty ground, bringing forth wisdom in its season.



"A world without evil? Boring. Give me vile fiends to smite and banish any day."
—Sarlena, paladin of the Northern Verge
"When gods become apathetic, the people will worship anyone who answers their pleas."
—Kiora
Rakdos rioters paint their faces to resemble the drakes' bloodied muzzles.

The Nessian Wood is never without defenders.



"She's quick and fearless, and she's never missed a shot. That almost makes up for all the scorch marks she leaves behind."
—Captain Lannery Storm
The only thing it likes more than discovering a pit of bones is adding to it.





Man versus nature is not a fair fight.
Zendikar is a brutal taskmaster, but sometimes it offers unexpected solace.
Some took to their boats to escape the unfolding nightmare. The remains of their vessels now litter the shores of Nephalia.
From broken swords, the first Imperials forged a peaceful servant to tend the shrines of Eiganjo.
It growls not to threaten, but to summon.

If you hear it coming, you're not its prey.
"How truly vast this city must be, that I have traveled so far and seen so much, yet never once found the place where the buildings fail."



"The wise learn from successes as well as mistakes."


Hardened by their life in the haunted Llanowar Forest, these fierce beings are outcasts among elvenkind.

Not even death can quench a hero's inner fire.


"The future is my gift to Keld."




Darkness doesn't always send its minions to do its dirty work.



On the volcanic continent of Akoum, bizarre vegetation clusters around gas vents, and jagged mountain peaks rise high into the air.
A lifetime of keeping up appearances is not enough to earn an eternity of rest.
"With no flesh, there is no pain, no hesitation, no emotion of any kind. He is crafted perfection."
—Tezzeret

"Curse these merrows and their meddling! Since coming near the river, I can't so much as sneeze without being soaked."
—Ashling the Pilgrim
Her roots connect her to the forest's wishes.
Often found browsing on the upper canopies of Ixalan's jungles, whiptails are known to absently bat away anything foolish enough to interrupt their meal.

"While, like a ghastly rapid river, Through the pale door, A hideous throng rush out forever, And laugh—but smile no more." —Edgar Allan Poe, "The Haunted Palace"


It outlived both king and castle.




An oath of fealty sworn with a handshake.
"I followed her song only to find it was a dirge."
—Crovax
Nethya stiffened suddenly, head cocked as if straining to hear some distant sound, then felt lifeless to the ground.


"They may show up with the wrong thigh bone or mandible, but they always show up."
—Zul Ashur, lich lord

"It has been my experience that disasters like to strike in pairs."
When its power is threatened, the council speaks with a unified voice.

"The shadow travels toward the apex. I predict we will soon see the true measure of darkness."
"The bigger they are, the faster they rot."

"A rift opened, and our arrows were abruptly stilled. To move was to push the world. But the sliver's claw still twitched, red wounds appeared in Thed's chest, and ribbons of blood hung in the air."
—Adom Capashen, Benalish hero



"I am not at liberty to reveal my sources, but I can assure you, the price on your head is high."
"Remove their power, and their will to fight will follow."
—Tolarian wizard
"I have seen the faces of my dead friends among that grim band, and I can bear no more."
—Lucilde Fiksdotter, Leader of the Order of the White Shield

"I see more than others do because I know where to look."
—Saprazzan vizier



"When struck, its hide shimmers through sequences of color—a signaling language I am eager to unravel."
—Rukarumel, field journal





Among the solitude-loving giantkind, teamwork is unusual. But he appreciates hearing the occasional "Swing down and to your left."

Abzan soldiers march to war confident that their Houses march with them.


Together they could hit anything between the heavens and the horizon.
"Did you expect me to dodge? How quaint."
—Olka, mistmeadow witch

Rather than sheltering her young, the female Fungusaur often injures her own offspring, thereby ensuring their rapid growth.




"Without the kami to speak to nature on our behalf, we must beg help from nature directly."
—Seshiro the Anointed
"The secret entrance should be near."


"No longer can we allow our human populations to be mindlessly slaughtered by ghouls. Slay all who trespass."
—Runo Stromkirk



She roams the border between wilderness and civilization, protecting those who need it most.
Goblins generally have two possessions: one per hand.


Like his mother before him, Darigaaz gave his life defending Dominaria from the tyranny of self-styled "gods."



The path to genius is forged in creativity.
Many sigils, one purpose.

"I killed one and found bricks and bones in its belly. It had eaten a whole cottage, thatch and all."
—Paulin, Somberwald trapper
The power of a waterfall. The fury of an avalanche. The intellect of a gale-force wind.
"Where'd the werewolves go? Maybe *that* got hungry."
—Halana of Ulvenwald
A cyclops has two moods: angry and asleep.
"General Takeno glared at us as if we were the enemy. 'The day is not over yet,' he shouted, 'and unless you have a nezumi's heart, you *will* stand and fight!'"
—*Battle of Akagi River: A Survivor's Tale*
Held in the lion's eye
—Zhalfirin saying meaning "caught in the moment of crisis"




2020 Legacy Champion
Among the artisans of Sokenzan City, reusing every scrap of metal is a point of pride.
"I love what they've done with the place."
—Liliana Vess
"'Fraid of heights? Ride a horse. 'Fraid of missing out? Rein up a drake."
—Trinda, Hada spy patrol
In life, they revered a diverse pantheon of gods. Now they revere only the God-Pharaoh.
"Though highly effective at reshaping flesh, these specially bred cytoplasts leave the subject reeking of omnibian mucus."
—Simic research notes
The best presents are impossible to regift.


"The essence of a lawful society is swift deterrence."



The bones of doomed ships jut out from the muck while the bones of their sailors molder below.

"You want me to install a seat belt? Please. You're lucky to get a seat!"

"What size advantage? They never even see me coming."
His name means "he who paints the earth red."

"Such deeds should be common fare for such as us."
—Anax, king of Akros

"Be fearless, for a furious rebirth awaits you."
—Nylea, god of the hunt

The avant-garde among Ghirapur's inventors disregard the Consulate's safety standards completely.

" . . . and you must also apply for an application license, file documents 136(iv) and 22-C and -D in triplicate, pay all requisite fees, request a . . ."

"Trained to battle the followers of Tourach, the Order of Leitbur was not as successful in later conflicts with orcish and goblin raiders."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. I*

"The silkworm spins itself a new existence. So the healer weaves the threads of life."
—Orim, Samite healer
"The past is the foundation for all that exists in the present. We merely reconstruct what our ancestors have already discovered."
—Sachimir, Sage of Memories

"To the undiscerning eye, justice and vengeance can look the same."
—Rashida Scalebane

Anti-gravity. Pro-fun.


Five-toed grave
—Kithkin phrase meaning "a giant's footprint"





"The hardest thing is finding the right ingredients."

Jariad burned the midnight oil, burned through scroll after scroll, and then burned down his laboratory.
The parts are as strong as the whole.




"I am reminded of the fable of the silver egg. Its owner cracks it open to see what jewels it holds, only to discover a simple yellow yolk."
—Karn, silver golem

"The spirit of the flame is the spirit of change."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain






"Your eyes aren't playing tricks on you. I am."
Followed the kirin
—Ojutai expression meaning
"died a hero's death"





Healers ultimately acquire the divine gifts of spiritual and physical wholeness. The most devout are also granted the ability to pass physical wholeness on to others.


"The face of mediocrity is wrapped in anointed linen. Aspire to a better end."
—Epnokep, vizier of Bontu

The blessings of Heliod are apparent for all to see.
"There can be no mercy, no half measures. When facing Phyrexians, it's kill swiftly or die."
—Jodah
"Cruelty? No. This is necessity."
—Kaervek
"Remember, brother, the eyes are always vulnerable."
"I never forgot."



If dragons excel at anything more than vanity, it is greed.
It pairs a long neck with a short temper.
Its students graduate the school and enter history.

"Which is more filled with poison: the flower of the moonglove or the minds of elves?"
—Vessifrus, flamekin demagogue

The idols of old are rich in minerals and magic. They are torn apart when nature aims to eat well.
A demon cannot be trusted, and a dragon will not be ruled.
"Look at the detail in this stonework! Professor, our assumptions about early Kathorran tool use may not be correct."

"As long as I stand, so will your cause."


The message is "Run."

Dominaria's most extravagant crypt nevertheless holds an empty grave.
Calix was patient, steadily following Elspeth until their destined confrontation.

"It's no Ornithopter, but then I'm no Urza."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist

No matter how righteous the cause, it helps to bring along some muscle.
An elder in one pride, of the Sigiled caste in another.

Be it ever so crumbled, there's no place like home.



The Roil takes many forms. It also takes many victims.




It hears and answers every orison across Shadowmoor.
Sometimes the healers need healing.
If the presence of evil were obvious, it wouldn't be nearly as dangerous.


"The lasting effects are invariably fatal."
@-Phyrexian progress notes
"When the bog walks, the wise run."
—Erissa, bog witch










Immortality is worth any price.
Do not judge a lizard by its size.
—Ghitu proverb
"The world calls and I answer."

Jamuraan wizards are linked together by magic, a bond that only the wicked dare exploit.

We encountered a valley topped with immense boulders and eerie rock formations. Suddenly one of these boulders toppled from its perch and sprouted gargantuan wings, casting a shadow of darkness and sending us fleeing in terror.

"Bant sentries were called the Angel Line. They never faltered, and they were ready to die defending their position."
—Elspeth Tirel

Even the humblest guard of Ojutai's strongholds ponders the puzzles of the Great Teacher's lessons.
A grave is the safest place to store ill-gotten treasures.
Phytohydras are banned as houseplants in many residential spires. If left unfed, they find their own exit—usually at the cost of extensive property damage.

The air was filled with the cracks and snaps of flesh hardening as the new sliver joined the battle.


"All this time I thought Squee was useless," chuckled Sisay. "Who knew he'd be such a good shot?"
When giants find their mountain homes infested, they have a whole range of solutions.

It offers the power to shape worlds and the elegance to do so with style.

Most people know better. Goblins only know bigger.

"Stray not onto the path of darkness, or be lost forever."
—Baki, wizard attendant

Renegades find ever more creative ways to work around the Consulate's aether regulations.



An elder in one pride, of the Sigiled caste in another.
The dwarves believe works of art should be passed down the generations, not buried with the dead.



"Even the threat of power has power."
—Jeska, warrior adept
"Does Teysa think me blind to her scheming? Ambition runs in our family."

"The potential for change lies in all things. Know a thing's nature, know its possibilities, and know it anew."
—Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran Royal Mage



This detailed model allows the edificers to examine the city from every angle.

The twins each researched spells to defeat Extus in their own way. Will hit the library. Rowan hit everything else.


"They say the ruins of Sedraxis were once a shining capital in Vithia. Now it is a blight, a place to be avoided by the living."
—Olcot, Rider of Joffik
"Keep master busy with new bits or else maybe she wonders if I'm made of bits too."
"I need never remember my past associates, my victims, my mistakes. Innistrad preserves them all for me."
—Sorin Markov
"Finally we understand the lesson of our home: loss begets renewal."
—Kolbjörn, elder druid of the Juniper Order

"The best construction makes the most satisfying destruction."
—Domri Rade





They worked well as a team, but they knew it couldn't last forever.
The very ground yielded to Mishra's wishes.


With their usual prey scared off by werewolves, the wolves of the Ulvenwald adopted inventive new hunting techniques.
Growth has no limits.
Immolation is the sincerest form of flattery.
Dromoka dragons foster trust among their subjects, while the other clans must spend their time quelling rebellion.




Busy as a bumblebee, blistered as a goblin.
—Alaborn saying
"How truly vast this city must be, that I have traveled so far and seen so much, yet never once found the place where the buildings fail."




"This is bigger than you. All of you."
—Tezzeret
Take two steps north into the unsettled future, south into the unquiet past, east into the present day, or west into the great unknown.
"Everything around here has cut a deal with gravity."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*
The Golgari adorn themselves with the exoskeletons of iridescent insects. It's only fair the insects do likewise.
"The protective wards of the church have weakened, and no one can tell us why. It's time to look to our own defenses."
—Gregel, militia leader
Loose earth is not a burial but an appetizer.

"Not again."
—Hans


"This is what glory looks like."
—Nicol Bolas
"But no one heard the snake's gentle hiss for peace over the elephant's trumpeting of war."
—Afari, *Tales*
The lantern he carried did not light his way—it signaled his approach.
What once soared high above Tarkir is now reduced to a seat.

"Behave and you'll be a fine pet. Bite me and you're ammunition."

For his family, Barrin made a funeral pyre of Tolaria.
"Approach my tower on bended knee or depart from it as ash upon the wind."
—Gadwick, the Wizened




Through its watchful gaze, all slivers may see.


Gnolls make offerings to sinister forces in the shadow-drenched chasms.

"No fair! Since when does a bug get ta munch on *me*?"
—Squee, goblin cabin hand
"Books are fantastic, but if you're really curious about the distant past, why not ask someone who was there?"
—Augusta, Lorehold dean
Immolation is the sincerest form of flattery.



Magnetic devices that keep massive golems and structures standing can also be used for the opposite purpose.



She'll swing a blade all her life, but never again for war.



Elspeth, blessed by Heliod,
stepped up where the hydra trod.
Soon afterward, a lesson learned:
attack the Champion, get burned!
—*THEROS! The Musical*
Mirrodin's deepest caverns conceal its brightest hopes.
Only when the anger passed did Varv realize he had burned down his home, destroyed his weapons, and killed his friend Furt.
Mages and warriors recruited from across Kylem display their skills at Valor's Reach.

Golems conjured from the debris of Enatu Temple provided a sturdy but expendable first line of defense against the Eldrazi.



When it came to following her orders, it was do and die.




"We cannot escape change, but with faith and fortitude, we can mold it to our liking."
—Marel, Dawnhart witch

"Her voice is disaster, painful and final."
—Matoc, lavamancer

"Brims" Barone's enforcers are always dressed to kill.
He's desperate to hold back the future because he has seen it.


The purple banner of the House of Vess is a symbol of death wherever it's flown.

Chainer's dark gift to a darker soul.

Stay alert: his lumbering may shake the ground itself, but in water, he glides.

Silent as a serpent, twisted as a lone bog tree, evil as Tojira's heart.

Witches of the Split-Eye Coven speak of a future when Grixis will overflow with life energy. For now, they must harvest vis from the living to fuel their dark magics.
"Once you see past the veil we call 'reality,' altering your own shape is elementary."

"I don't know why people say a double-edged sword is bad. It's a sword. With two edges."
—Kamahl, pit fighter
Alara's burning blood cannot be contained by mere earth and stone.
In the hands of the open-minded, a runewing quill writes wisdom of its own.
"Yes, I think 'toast' is an appropriate description."
—Jaya Ballard, Task Mage










Broad prairies feed the human sanctuary of Drannith and conceal a network of caverns where giant cats make their dens.


Depending on your point of view, the seal represents a proud guardian of the natural cycle or one who has sold her soul to darkness for eternal life.
"They'd pour out of the warrens to make war (and to make room for the littering matrons)."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV*

Such cloaks are in high demand both by assassins and by those who fear them.




"I'd stand back if I were you."
Conjured from the bowels of hell, the fiery wall forms an impassable barrier, searing the soul of any creature attempting to pass through its terrible bursts of flame.

A strong leader means a growing pack.

Gnolls make offerings to sinister forces in the shadow-drenched chasms.

Even war can be civil.
Designed by George Fan

"I am who I pretend to be."

Mogglings have been known to play ball with hibernating slivers, completely unaware of their true nature.
The Nightmare arises from its lair in the swamps. As the poisoned land spreads, so does the Nightmare's rage and terrifying strength.


For a sharp second, Selenia froze, and Crovax's blade found home. As the angel shattered like glass, Crovax felt his mind collapse—the curse had been fulfilled.

Vastly outnumbered, the Zendikari found creative ways to even the odds.



"The peasants labor for my profit. I approve."
"She showed up to class on a what?"
—Valentin, Witherbloom Dean
"If you don't speak wolf, allow me to translate: 'One step closer and I'll rip out your throat.'"
—Arlinn Kord
"Flog and Squee / Up the tree / See the army / Flee, flee, flee."
—Goblin nursery rhyme/war cry
The other tribes call them fanatics, but none deny that the Mul Daya elves have an iron-strong bond to some force greater than themselves.

Blood calls to blood.



The hounds' barks are a horrifying chorus of screams, moans, and whispers.

Within it rests the power of a sun, and none of the warmth.



"I can give you strength, but you'll have to bring your own courage."



"Something mighty stirs in the forest. Can't you feel it?"


"Here is the proof that what has been done may yet be undone. The hope we thought dead will be gloriously reborn."

The river split into many channels as it flowed to the Halimar Sea. Few travelers could follow the same one twice.

If you need a job done quick and extra stabby, call "McChoppy."



Don't try to outrun one of Dominia's Grizzlies; it'll catch you, knock you down, and eat you. Of course, you could run up a tree. In that case you'll get a nice view before it knocks the tree down and eats you.


Knowing the Hymn's power, the followers of Leitbur carefully guarded their pillaged transcriptions.

The crossbow is the ideal weapon for the lazy Mercadians: just point and shoot.

As he races the moon each night, he draws a glowing equator across the world.







Without a foe to focus on, the machine priests had time to indulge in new sciences.


"Prophecy is whatever one makes of it, but destiny cannot be changed."
—Sidar Jabari
"We had him cornered, we did . . . and, well, you know what they say about rats."
—Araba patrol survivor

"I shall seek the Emperor's forgiveness in the darkest places of the night."
—Oath the Penitent
"Odd. I didn't see any lightning . . . ."
—Herreth, poacher, last words

Don't.
"Inspiration is found by looking outward."
—Oviya Pashiri, sage lifecrafter

"Orc must die / Orc must die / Not an orc? / March on by."
—Dwarven marching song




"These days, there's no shortage of food for the nulls of Guul Draz."
—Drana, Kalastria bloodchief
It's wise not to disturb an artist at work.
"Kinjalli's encompassing rays herald new life in the moment of the sun's dawning."
—Chitlati, Lightning Rider
Left to itself, nature overflows any container, overthrows any restriction, and overreaches any boundary.
A farewell to arms . . . and feet . . . and legs . . . .
"A little dark magic won't stop me. The worse the curse, the better the prize."
—Radavi, Joraga relic hunter, last words
Ogres are driven by passion, rage, and another ogre standing behind them with a whip.




Designed by Brian Fargo
She doesn't escort the dead to the afterlife, but instead raises them to fight and die again.






"Find him a weapon as big as his dreams."
—Yorvo, lord of Garenbrig
"Control the Great Conduit? You might as well try to divert a river with your hands."



"Landing zone is clear. Activate and deploy!"
"Joining this army is easy, boy. Just survive your first battle."


"Over the silver mountains, Where spring the nectar fountains, There will I kiss The bowl of bliss; And drink my everlasting fill. . . ."
—Sir Walter Raleigh, "The Pilgrimage"
"This world will be ruled by its rightful sovereigns, not these hideous pretenders."


"When elephants fight it is the grass that suffers." —Kikuyu Proverb
As the bough stretches, so shall you grow. As the roots spread, so shall you thrive.

The Hekma may repel storms and monsters, but nothing holds back the heat of the suns.
"I've seen the fully grown ones tear a baloth to gory ribbons in seconds."
—Kivi, thornberry harvester
Everything from damaged furniture to inconvenient corpses becomes fuel for Ziatora's ever-burning foundry.
"Light a torch and deliver this letter" were his instructions, which he unfortunately reversed.
"INPUT ACCEPTED: SHIVAN DRAGON. INITIATING . . . ERROR! GIRAFFE. GIRAFFE. GIRAFFE."
From mite to mighty.
"This shield is a true rarity: an artifact whose purpose is obvious."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"Hear that? Those notes mean we've arrived at Sunhome! Let our allies' hearts soar and our enemies' hearts shatter at the sound!"
—Klattic, Boros legionnaire
"The cathars killed my skaabs down below. Let's see how high their swords can reach."
—Ludevic, necro-alchemist




Countless streams flow into the nine rivers, and the nine rivers flow into the Great River. The River Heralds guard them all.


At Nahiri's call, Emrakul traversed the vast emptiness between the planes and arrived on Innistrad.
"I have wept such a torrent as to scour the land clean."
—Mu Yanling

When Raganorn unsealed the catacombs, he found more than the dead and their treasures.
If only every message were as perfect as its bearer.
"If you're not refining your tastes, what's the point of living forever?"




TODAY'S FORTUNE: THE REST OF YOUR LIFE WILL BE FULL OF FUN AND HAPPINESS—ALL SIX HOURS OF IT.

The slith incubate in the Great Furnace's heat, emerging on Mirrodin's surface only when the four suns have aligned overhead.

"I don't concern myself with my enemy's hopes. Hopes follow the tides. They will retreat soon enough."
—Ambassador Laquatus
Woodland geists concluded that Emrakul would be unable to warp the denizens of the forest if the geists got there first.
Esper is an expansive canvas painted by precise, controlling hands.

Automaton inspectors ensure that the Consulate's stringent standards for mass production are upheld.

Cho-Manno knew he had no choice but to ally with Gerrard. If that's what it took to free his people, he'd pay the price.
It grows several feet a year.


Never boring.
Some Krovikans find strength in the ears and eyes of their victims and wear such fetishes into battle.


Rhonas's monument is home to a wider variety of creatures than anywhere else in the city of Naktamun—a feature most initiates fail to appreciate.


Brutality had never been so exquisite.
All around the foundry, automatons unhitched themselves from their mounts and pivoted to face Chandra.

"I know they're unstoppable fighters created to harvest souls—it's just they're so rude about it."
—Kaya


Hurkyl's research at the College of Lat-Nam wasn't enough to stop the two brothers, but for centuries thereafter her spellcraft taught artificers restraint.

"From a tiny sprout, the greatest trees grow and flourish. May the seeds of your mind be equally fruitful."


Elspeth's squires do not seek advancement. For them, no knightly glory could surpass the glory of serving their champion.
Unhappy with the creation of the wolfir, Rorica broke with her order and led a crusade against the "reformed werewolves."
Mardu riders' greatest fear is that a battle might end before their weapons draw blood.


The kavu adjusted easily to the Rathi overlay, incorporating the invasive flowstone into their own adaptable forms.

Foul specters hunt down those who try to back out of a deal with a daemogoth.

"Enough!"

Gerrard studied the globe as Mirri kept watch. Suddenly, his eyes widened. "This is Dominaria!"
"Either I know just the spell I need, or I'm about to."
In the erupting heart of Bogardan, it's hard to tell hurtling volcanic rocks from pouncing volcanic beasts.
"Though their ideals are leagues apart, Urza's and Mishra's creations have a surprising harmony with one another."
—Tocasia, journal entry
Every tear shed is a drop of immortality.


Charged with psychic energy, the melee weapons of the Tyranid are far more than bone and chitin.

Hanna was astounded. Mirri read every leaf and wisp of breeze like a book of ancient lore.
For the first time in his life, Grakk felt a little warm and fuzzy inside.
Most such relics remain clasped shut for fear of what ominous truths might be carved into the diptych inside.
A crackling roar is the last sound many hunters hear.
An Akroan soldier's worth is measured by the number of swords raised by his battle cry.

For every eye, an eye. For every tooth, a tooth. Griffins are nothing if not fair.
Takenuma was filled with a chorus of moans, shrieks, and wails. Some came from the living, some from the dying, and some, most horribly, from the dead.

As she took the wheel of the *Weatherlight* for the first time in a millennium, Jhoira knew she'd been right to restore the ship. Anything was possible now.


Ravnica's defenders watched in horror as Oketra's shot pierced the body of the pegasus. Gideon tumbled through the air, Blackblade in hand.
Even the landscape turned against Sarsour, first rising up and pelting him, then rearranging itself so he could no longer find his way.
Hold your tongue, lest you burn it.
The blessed union of gun, claw, and merciless intent is a force to be truly feared.

"Even the smallest creatures are fierce in defense of their own territory."
—Vivien Reid

Protected by druids for untold centuries, the forest began to return the favor.
"Words of power never disappear. They sleep, awaiting those with the will to rouse them."


"Chronicles across the ages describe Jodah. They likely refer not to one mage, but to a family or an arcane title."
—Arkol, Argivian scholar

"My battle cry reaches ears far keener than yours."
—Saidah, Joraga hunter
Its precious corpses dance like puppets to attract mindless nim prey.
"Variety is also the spice of death."
—Cevraya, Golgari shaman
An avatar he sculpts of wisdom and strength.


Only the chosen ones are spared.
"I am the rock of the polis. Death only strengthens me."

To the Sultai, Ugin's power was just one more resource to be exploited.



Cinder mages enjoy seeing their victims in the throes of bloodlust—and seeing the regret that inevitably follows.


The Cateran guild prefers to call them "public relations."





Upon scattering her grandmother's ashes, the Envoy was bathed in a warm spectral glow.

Neither its appearance nor its temperature varies as the years pass, an eternal testament to the forces that shaped Dominaria.


Grixis is a world where the only things found in abundance are death and decay. Corpses, whole or in part, are the standard currency among necromancers and demons.


Fortunately for lost travelers, chwingas' curiosity often gets the better of their shyness.
Reminders of Memnarch's reign still skirr across Mirrodin, reminiscent of his form if not his power.


The Ogre philosopher Gnerdel believed the purpose of life was to live as high on the food chain as possible. She refused to eat vegetarians, and preferred to live entirely on creatures that preyed on sentient beings.

Reluctant to strike at the kami directly, some kitsune trained in more passive fighting techniques.

Gerrard: "But it doesn't do anything!" Hanna: "No—it does nothing."

A sharp axe solves most problems.
"Oh, sorry—were we racing?"
"I'm glad she can run again, but this might have been a bit much."
—Kenji, Sokenzan artisan



"Tilonalli's searing rays carry the spark of life's eventual destruction as all light fades."
—Chitlati, Lightning Rider
Renegades run the gamut from lofty sages to petty thieves.
"C'mon, fiend. I'll carve you up like a Harvesttide ham."
"The true measure of all heroes is not what they achieve, but who they inspire."
—*Triumph of Gerrard*
What was supposed to be a quiet time in town turned into an adventure of its own.
There is always a moment of trepidation before opening a message capsule, for fear of the judgment that might be contained within.

"That name shall not be spoken."
—Baral, Chief of Compliance

"Kjeldor must be supreme at any cost."
—Avram Garrisson, Leader of the Knights of Stromgald

"About, about in reel and rout
The death-fires danced at night;
The water, like a witch's oils,
Burnt green, and blue and white."
—Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"



"Ill luck and poor geography caught the Thalakos between us and the Dauthi."
—Lyna, Soltari emissary
"Faugh!" snorted Tahngarth. "Why would it make a meal of something like you?" Squee looked relieved. "No," he continued, "you'd make a much better toothpick."
"Hear that? No? *That's* a cat warrior."
"Guess where I'm gonna plant this!"



Suffer the little creatures, for they may yet rise up and beat you senseless.





To an explorer, a priceless treasure. To the crab, a rock to call home.
The goblin word for "flying" is more accurately translated as "falling slowly."
The slivers would survive, even at the expense of every other creature on Otaria.

Jace traced Nahiri to the Singing City, but the magic of the ancient ruins threatened to overwhelm his mind.

Mirrodin's creator still lives, still shapes metal, and still commands world-shaking power.

"It was a strange morning. When we awoke, we found our trees transformed. We didn't know whether to water them or polish them."
—Pulan, Bant orchardist

The lawmage served her a warrant as long as Niv Mizzet's tail. She thanked him, then used it as kindling to burn down his house.
Ish Sah, den of the warlord Geth, commander of countless nim.
"They are like their vedalken masters: untouchable, aloof, and omnipresent."
—Bruenna, Neurok leader
"All the treasures of this world are grown, not made."
The continent of Guul Draz is a geothermal swampland reeking of heat and decay.




Everyone has something to hide.




It serves a justice higher than the whims of the gods.
"Tomorrow wears yesterday's face."
—Kordel the Cryptic

"These benighted worlds are thick with ignorance. I will educate them. They will listen, or they will die."
Travelers are advised to bring extra swords, preferably shiny ones.


The ground rose and formed into thousands of tiny warriors. This fight was far from over.
"That's a pretty ring! Trade you my knife for it."

Armor dissolved into flesh. Flesh melted to bone. Bone fell away to nothing.
"Torahn's horns! They've seen us. Now, statue, you must fight to save yourself!"
—Tahngarth, aboard the *Predator*


In fire there is the spark of chaos and destruction, the seed of life. In ice there is perfect tranquility, perfect order, and the silence of death.
"The best skaabs are more powerful and more beautiful than the sum of their parts."
—Stitcher Geralf

"They can afford the loss. They build it into their prices."

"Do you hear that, Sarkhan? The glory of the horde! I made a legend from what you abandoned."
—Zurgo, khan of the Mardu
One day the spirit and mortal realms will be one. Until then, she faithfully guards the sites where they merge.


"A touch of lightning, and anyone can be taught to dance."
—Tobin, sparkmage


"If you hear a groaning noise in the cellar, don't investigate. Don't split up. Just lock the door and barricade it."
—Emili, guard captain
Whether mechanical or biological, life finds a way to propagate itself.

Left masterless by Kozilek, it wandered the wilds, raving in its ceaseless hunger.
"Once I dreamt of death, but now it dreams of me / And only rats and rotting flesh can hear my silent plea."
—Mundungu chant

To most, the Nido Sanctuary is an office complex. To the Brokers, it's a vault of secrets.
The intricate dynamics of Rundvelt Goblin affairs are often confused with anarchy. The chaos, however, is the chaos of a thundercloud, and direction will sporadically and violently appear. Pashalik Mons and his Raiders are the thunderhead that leads in the storm.





She remembers every word spoken, from the hero's oath to the baby's cry.
Their arrival is heralded by the deafening hum of ten thousand wings. Their departure is marked by the silence of the dead.


"My scars are my sigils. I will wear them with pride long after you're gone."

Mood: He's the Pied Piper of squirrels.

Her ivy locks are a remnant of the wooded wilds now lost to Ravnica forever.



As patient and generous as life, as harsh and merciless as nature.



The akki knew to stay indoors on the days the oni flew their kites.
"As long as my faith persists, so shall I."

"If you cannot turn your enemy's strength to weakness, then make that strength your own."
—Gresha, warrior sage
The continent of Guul Draz is a geothermal swampland reeking of heat and decay.

"Why should I flatter another with imitation when I can satisfy myself through possession?"
—Ertai, wizard adept
"In the death of the foe lies the resurrection of the faithful."
Though imprisoned in Jaspera trees, the elvish gods known as the Einir still whisper through the ages.
Boggarts divide the world into two categories: things you can eat, and things you have to chase down and pummel before you can eat.
"Let the flames ignore the sinless."
Mage-students fascinated by the energies of life and death choose Witherbloom, the college of essence studies.


There is always a greater power.
"Avacyn has abandoned us! We have nothing left except what we can take!"
"Their appendages are sharper than our swords and quicker than our bows."
—Hastric, Thunian scout

Anyone who thinks merrows have more brains than brawn has never been run over by one.
A mirror to draw its eye, a rod to rouse its rage, and a sword to break its bonds.



When Asha left Bant, she ensured that the world would have protection and order in her absence.


Nobody had ever won the bear, but then again, nobody had ever wanted it quite as much.

"Garl, adjust the slurry dispensers. Garl, fetch more corpses. Garl, quit crying and give me your brain tissue. If he doesn't stop being so rude, I'm quitting."


"Cosi has many followers. Even the volcano finds a way to do his bidding."
—Zakken, Enclave cleric


She haunts the streets, wings spread wide, with carrion on her breath and blood in her eyes.




Fire to destroy. Fire to create.

The student searches the world for meaning. The master finds worlds of meaning in the search.

"In case any of you new recruits were wondering, this is why we don't use mass graves anymore."
—Kerren of the Mausoleum Guards


"It is evidence that some pure corner of the world must still exist."
—Djeru, former Tah-crop initiate
"The pain of exploring is less than the pain of not knowing."
@-Tamiyo


Occasionally the living wander to the Rivers, but the wardens of Athreos ensure that only the dead pass.
A lifetime of discipline forsaken in a moment of rage.

Like all jungle plants, the vines must fight and claw for sunlight. Once their place is secured, they grow strong, sharp, and impenetrable.
The feline Eternal felt Liliana's command, looked at her disdainfully, flicked its paw, and scampered away across the rooftops.

Where mana flows, the gnarlids follow.
"None of you are yet samurai. Defend your homes with honor, die for your cause, and perhaps then you will be worthy of the word."
—General Takeno


Only the warrior who can admit mortal weakness will be bolstered by immortal strength.

We encountered a valley topped with immense boulders and eerie rock formations. Suddenly one of these boulders toppled from its perch and sprouted gargantuan wings, casting a shadow of darkness and sending us fleeing in terror.


"If I wanted all the parts to match, I wouldn't have become a stitcher."
—Barton, stitcher

The Battle of Tomakul taught Urza not to rely on fickle reinforcements.

Leonin raising ceremonies take place at the white sun's dawn, the rebirth of artifacts mirroring the birth of a new day.
His verdict is always guilty. His sentence is always death.

"The chain fit my neck perfectly, but my heart fluttered with chills as the cool metal came to rest against my chest. I closed the clasp and waited, silent."


"The vampires never had gods. We followed our bloodchiefs. Now they are gone. What is left? Destruction and death, my friends. That is enough."


"Her people angered Zendikar, and they faced the land's wrath. That is why Nissa is the last of the animists."
—Numa, Joraga chieftain

There is only one fate left to those banished from the God-Pharaoh's city.


On Naya, ambition and treachery are scarce, hunted nearly to extinction by the awe owed to terrestrial gods.
"That's no glint hawk. The skies have changed for the worse."
—Ria Ivor, White Sun partisan

The storm rages and the earth breaks.

"Flee all you like. The further you run the more firmly I feel your heartbeat."


Tamil had always wanted a closer look at a geist's lantern. Now he had an eternity to study one.


The hand of death recognizes its own.

"Any one of us could be compromised," said Karn. "No one leaves until we know who can be trusted."

Supplicants offer flesh and silver, flowers and blood. The altar takes what it will, eyes gleaming with unspoken promises.


"Born and bred of fungus, thallids were nearly impossible to kill."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. I*
He's the calm that hides the coming storm.
Action: Start with 190C and design a spirit known as an Eidolon that resembles a human solider carrying a large shield.
"A long and difficult incision revealed that all vital organs are housed in the head, save for a long chain of stomachs, forty in all, leading from its throat to the end of the tail."
—Mulak Ffar, *Vastwood Biodiversity*
When tempers run high, it's easy to lose your head.
In places where the sea meets the trees, it's easy to forget the darkness that rules most of Innistrad.
Atarka's presence thaws the glaciers of Qal Sisma, forcing its elementals to migrate or adapt.
"Me? I'm just an innocent bystander!"
"Let my ignominy build walls thicker than iron and stronger than darksteel."
—Thrun, the last troll

Two taken, two judged, one returned.
"What the . . . ?"



"Opposite Law is Grace, and Grace must be preserved. If the strands of Grace are unraveled, its design will be lost, and the people with it."
—*Song of All*, canto 167

Llanowar rallied around Eladamri's banner and united in his name.
The slith incubate in the Great Furnace's heat, emerging on Mirrodin's surface only when the four suns have aligned overhead.

Marrow-Gnawer united three nezumi gangs when he slew their leaders in a single night. Now they call him their first lord.
Gruul territorial markings need not be legible. The blood, snot, and muck used to smear them are unmistakably Gruul.

It emits a stinking cloud composed of millions of nascent microscopic organisms, each possessing a fragment of predatory sentience.

The pain of a lifetime—every scrape, illness, and bruise—condensed into a single moment.
"Tonight we'll eat a farewell feast. Cold corn porridge is not enough. / Let's peel papayas, pineapples, and mangoes, drink coconut milk, / and bake bananas."
—"Love Song of Night and Day"
"I said we should destroy the Eldrazi. Ugin wanted to return them to stasis. Ugin's arguments were . . . unconvincing."
—Jace Beleren
It's drawn to the scent of screaming.







In a flash of a light and a burst of aether, despair turned to hope and defeat turned to victory.

Its breath leaves its prey too drowsy to struggle.


Don't try to outrun one of Dominaria's grizzlies; it'll catch you, knock you down, and eat you. Of course, you could run up a tree. In that case you'll get a nice view before it knocks the tree down and eats you.
"Shiv hatched from a shell of stone around a yolk of flame."
—Viashino myth

"The second wind of ascension is Reaver, slaying the unworthy."
—*Keld Triumphant*
"They had it coming."
—Squire Imalia, savior of Thiswick
"Taniwha rolls in its sleep, and the land is awash with the waves."
—Poetics of Hanan
"I was struck senseless for a moment, but revived when the strange curiosity I carried fell to the ground, screaming like a dying animal."
—Barl, Lord Ith




Its voice crackles with the hum of a thousand wings beating at once.
"First, do some harm."
—Oath of Goblins

"Your blood whispers secrets your mind could never comprehend."



It makes the insignificant conspicuous, the repulsive alluring, and the deadly irresistible.




Wei won the battle of Hefei when Zhang Liao defeated Sun Quan and then foiled a Wu scheme to incite rebellion.

"It's strange, but I can feel it when the land is corrupted. I understand why the Autumn Willow is so protective."
—Daria
"Of all the tyrannies on humane kind The worst is that which persecutes the mind."
—John Dryden, "The Hind and the Panther"





"Guard, fetch me a mallet."
—Heidar, Rimewind master

Fragments of thought refract and multiply, surging in a geyser of dizzying insight.

"Look at her, once filled with innocence. Death has a way of wringing away such . . . deficiencies."
—Savra
So long as death follows life, the supply lines of the Sultai will never be cut.

Swirling eddies of ash hide crumbling cliffs, treacherous drops, and the slavering maws of unknown evils.
"The dragon is a perfect marriage of power and the will to use it."
—Sarkhan Vol

"For unwavering commitment and unflinching strength, the Order of the White Orchid confers its sigil. Rise, knight-captain, and do your duty."
"Look at the detail in this stonework! Professor, our assumptions about early Kathorran tool use may not be correct."

The most violent and destructive storms in Femeref occur on cloudless days.
"I wouldn't want you to hurt yourself."
—Bruenna, Neurok leader

"Strike," the fumes hiss. "Raise an empire with your ambition."
The village's name was long forgotten, its crumbling ruins a monument to the fragility of civilization.
"When terror outweighs all other thoughts, they will understand that I am the true Father of Machines."
—Azax-Azog, the Demon Thane

Mephidross gives up treasure easily . . . as long as you take its place.
"The empire belongs to no one man but to all in the empire. He who has virtue shall possess it."


Only in Ravnica do the wolves watch the flock.
"Power often costs too high a price."
—Commander Eesha
"I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately."
—Henry David Thoreau, *Walden*
Hatred outlives the hateful.


Simic mages create redundant backups of their experiments to reduce the consequences of catastrophe.
In war, dragons don't see sides, just side dishes.



"His tenement is filled with the most vile, disgusting vermin. It's infested with rats, too."
—Branko One-Ear
Once I had the strength but no wisdom; now I have the wisdom but no strength.
—Persian proverb



Time is a marvelous plaything.


"Let go your grudges, or risk wandering the bogs forever in a murderous rage."
—Hildin, priest of Avacyn

"Leave no survivors. Let the other worlds see what befalls those who attempt to resist the might of Phyrexia."
—Sheoldred


Gruul territorial markings need not be legible. The blood, snot, and muck used to smear them are unmistakably Gruul.


Poached Rukh Eggs
Rock
Cooked Rock
Unicorn-on-the-Cob
Wormfang Turtle Soup
"I can't protect everyone here. But those I can, I will."
—Karn



"With the right tools, even the sky is within reach."

Ever since the disaster, the city's survivors viewed the star-strewn sky with dread.
No two see the same Maro.



"Your lungs may not draw breath, but while your hands can grip a sword, you will be useful to me."
—Nighteyes, nezumi necromancer
"Let the interlopers scurry like trapped rats until they exhaust themselves. They are no threat to us."
—Ith, High Arcanist

Those who drink from Malfegor's cup are tainted with hunger and stained with lies.

Balshan wizards have long used them to gnaw away the memories they wish to forget.

Healers ultimately acquire the divine gifts of spiritual and physical wholeness. The most devout are also granted the ability to pass physical wholeness on to others.
The portal opens not to the past, but from it. Those who step through discover an unimaginable future.

Pause for the briefest of moments to consider the whorl of brambles, the tangled twist of bark, and the maze has already won.
To thallids, the whole world is just a pile of mulch to grow saprolings in.



Karn's creation is now his master.

"If it wasn't a blackened, stinking, melted abomination before, it certainly is now."
—Koth of the Hammer
Like a volcano, it too can erupt without warning.


Gravity is truly what you make of it.



It plucks away memories like choice bits of carrion.

"But . . ."
"Children, where are your parents?"
—Reig, wandering monk, last words

"Rankle's pranks are child's play. My games will topple kingdoms."
"Afternoon, folks. Lovely day for a stroll with my authentic human baby."
"Hand over your loot and no one gets hurt!"
Feldon found the first of these canes frozen in the Ronom Glacier.

Some spellcrafting mistakes go on to become spells of their own.
Better potent than predictable.




The more metal it digests, the more its jelly will fetch on the alchemists' market.
"Like water, mana will drain from an inferior vessel."
—Jalan Tosk, Simic forcemage
"About, about in reel and rout
The death-fires danced at night;
The water, like a witch's oils,
Burnt green, and blue and white."
—Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"

"Oh, is *that* all you need? Why didn't you just say so?"
—Reef shaman

D'Haren stared at the twisted lump of metal that had been a prized artifact. The fight was getting ugly.
Shanna had heard Sisay's legend all her life. Now it was time to forge her own.
Sometimes the wings of fallen dragons refuse to give up the sky.
Zombies mourn for the living and celebrate those who will soon be given the gift of death.






No spot in nature is truly barren.
"Let me try one of Kefnet's puzzles. This one was too easy."
Sometimes the greatest strength is the strength of conviction.

"Amazing thing, gravity. It seems to work every time."
—Telim'Tor
Only a worthy few are permitted within the sentient forest known as Axebane.
For those needing instructions how to drive the bumper cars, there's a crash course.


"I reeled from the blow, and then suddenly, I knew exactly what to do. Within moments victory was mine."
—Gustha Ebbasdotter
Kjeldoran royal mage

"To control the present we must master the future."

From the highest tiers of Dawn's Light Palace to the deepest shade of Wren's Run, the silver notes of the horn shimmer through the air, and all who hear it feel its pull.




The true strength of nature is not the raging storm or the charging rhino, but the inexorable vitality of life.

Aboard her ship, the *Dragon's Smile*, Kari follows no one's rules but her own.

"They have long kept us under attack, but we do not lack for ammunition. The very bodies of our foes arm us against them."
—Adom Capashen, Benalish hero


The best fighters are skilled in both harming and healing.



The bigger the hand, the higher the price.
"Nature has a way of adapting to and overcoming any force that seeks its end."
—Vivien Reid
"Kings and beggars, they end the same— Surrounded by stench, rot, and blame."
—Aline Corralurn, "Legacy"


"Yes, I think 'toast' is an appropriate description."
—Jaya Ballard, task mage

"Nothing to see here. Just carrying a carpet. Yes, the carpet wears boots. Stop asking questions."
"Llanowar remembers the Ice Age, the Phyrexian Invasion, and the Rift Era. So long as we draw breath, we will ensure such disasters never threaten our world again."

"Looks like that wasn't darksteel after all."
—Koth of the Hammer
The Consulate prizes innovation when it is dependable and replicable.


"And you were almost finished with that ritual, weren't you, darling? How very rude of me. To make it up to you, I'll send you an invitation to my wedding."





His presence brings not only a strong arm but also renewed hope.




Midwife to mothers and leader to all.
"No bird soars too high, if he soars with his own wings."
—William Blake,
*The Marriage of Heaven and Hell*

The greatest masters of the craft abandon tools altogether, shaping metal with hand and mind alone.

"The creature we fought in the western waste was doubly dangerous: mortally wounded, it rebounded and attacked again."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry


"For something is amiss or out of place When mice with wings can wear a human face."
—Theodore Roethke, "The Bat"





The spell fell upon the crowd like a dragon, ancient and full of death.

"Let's show Vorinclex that progress doesn't always need teeth or claws."
—Malcator, Executor of Synthesis
"Deceit is the heart of war."
"We are Kjeldorans no more."
—Zur the Enchanter

Many people say that no power can bring the mountains low. Many people are fools.
"I've never been above throwing the first punch."
"No mage's deception can harm those who keep nature balanced."

In the Skyfang Mountains, one misstep can mean the end of an entire clan.
"The walls of Argive were built by a peaceful dynastic union that has guarded us against war for fifteen centuries. The lesson is clear."
The Sanctum Seekers were the first of the knightly orders to cross the sea and are still the most zealous.
"Let's see how brave you really are behind all that oak and steel."
The essence of sunlight to brighten the way.
As the sludge below began to shift and take shapes, Gerrard turned from the railing to Orim. "I suppose," he said, "it's a little too late for prayer, isn't it?"
With practice, the measurement of magic can lead to its mastery.
When he hits people, they stay hit.
These thick-furred wolves have adapted to Stensia's storms, channeling their energy into bursts of supernatural speed.



"The desert asked the Ancestor for children, and the antelope were born."
—Nomad myth



Ashnod invented several torture techniques that could make victims even miles away beg for mercy as if the End had come.
"The Skirk Ridge has many wonderful things to discover—like escape routes."
—Foothill guide




Benalish glazeplate is stained with salts from the Rift Era and enchanted to deflect blows.

"Where did I find my horned friend? Now there's a story worth telling. . . ."
"Put a minotaur at the head of an army and suddenly all the soldiers act like they have horns."
—Gideon Jura

"They say the ruins of Sedraxis were once a shining capital in Vithia. Now it is a blight, a place to be avoided by the living."
—Olcot, Rider of Joffik
The fruit of this fabled tree takes on the flavor of whatever food you love most.
"Damn the cannons, mates. Charge!"


The battlefield became so pockmarked with craters and trenches that casualties were regularly attributed to "fell in a hole."


The Rubblebelt grows restless.
"Looking out the great windows of Vitu-Ghazi at the foundry stacks belching their smoke to the sky, I wonder when the sky will take its vengeance."
—Heruj, Selesnya initiate
"The walls of the wicked will fall before us. Ready the siege engines. We proceed to war!"
—General Avitora
Grelden knelt and felt the cool, dry hand of the priest on his brow. Hours later, when his wits returned, he was covered in his enemies' blood on the field of victory.
"When you threaten the sanctity of the polis, you insult Ephara herself. If she doesn't smite you, I will."
Only those gifted with the eye of Ugin, the spirit dragon, can see his fiery breath.



Laughed at the brushwagg
—Hunters' expression meaning "died unexpectedly"
A bristling wave of slivers broke against the *Weatherlight's* timbers.

"Paws."
"The standard cure for leeches requires the application of burning embers. Alternative methods must be devised should an ember of sufficient size prove more harmful than the leech."
—Vervamon the Elder
After a long hibernation, Argoth began slowly recovering from the ravages of war.


"After death you face paradise, damnation, or Tariel."
—Priest's teaching
She will not be content until hers is the highest head in the sky.

Beauty is in the eye of the exploder.



"There are harsher ways to learn the meaning of the word 'no.'"
—Rashida Scalebane

Their dominion over dark and destructive forces twisted the oni into beings of pure malevolence.



"You may enter the city—once the toll is paid."




As a scholar, she saw the sylex not as a weapon, but as a key to the past.
Some words are too important to trust to something as fragile as memory.
"(Z—>)90° — (E—N²W)90°t = 1"
"The Silumgar hide behind the deadly wildlife of their swamps. They'd rather scheme in their jungle palaces than face us."
—Khibat, Kolaghan warrior

If you're lucky, you'll walk out with just your ego singed.

The pyromancer summoned up her mightiest onslaught of fire and rage. Jace feigned interest.
"Are you seriously telling me your heavy combat mech . . . blew away?"
—Risona, leader of the Asari Uprisers


"Some are born to greatness. You were born to scrub greatness's floors."
There is much talk about the art of creation. What about the art of destruction?


"I have pustules of the great Ratadrabik, very cheap. No? Surely you'll want a tincture of Nevinyrral's pulverized remains. Genuine!"


They function as everything from assassins to jesters in the name of their fae king.
Are merfolk humans with fins, or are humans merfolk with feet?

"All these old relics have one thing in common. Every last one of them is made of smithereens."
—Zada of Slab Haven
As long as one drop of the oil exists, the joyous work continues.
"My 'condition' is a trial. The weak are consumed by it. The strong transcend it."
—Sorin Markov

The continent of Ondu is a vast plateau crisscrossed by deep trenches and meandering rivers.
"Llanowar's boughs are ever ready
To unleash an autumn of steel leaves."
—"Song of Freyalise"


"Much can be learned from the bees about dying for a cause."
—Asmira, Holy Avenger


The earth cannot hold that which magic commands.

The arcane sphere that hovers near Magnus's staff imbues it with the power to transform enemies into mindless chaos spawn.




When human corpses are in short supply, stitchers get creative.
It ignores such insignificant forces as time, entropy, and death.
"From the highest towers to the deepest sea, all life must be touched by etherium."
—Lodus of the Ethersworn
Parts of Faerûn still churn with the magic of arrogant Netherese archmages long dead.








Forever after, she lived in fear of the madness reclaiming her.
"We will destroy the pretenders and reclaim the divinity of the Einir."
"Some mages duel using intricate spellcraft and superior tactics. Others just get really, really mad."
—*Secrets of the Feradorn Sorcerers*
"Though Serra has not been seen for twenty years, her Gargoyles still watch over our city and punish the guilty."
—Gulsen, Abbey Matron

"There is no greater coward than one who believes in nothing."
"This metal belonged to Argoth before it was ripped from the ground. Now it belongs to Argoth again."

"I'd say it's still a fair fight—now my friend is about the size of your ego."

"When I cut down my angel I only started my fall."
—Crovax
"The best foresight is hindsight."
—Empress Llawan

The Champion armed herself to face the cyclops, heedless of her companions' despair. "How will you defeat it with only one spear?" asked young Althemone. The Champion raised her weapon. "It has but one eye."
—*The Theriad*

"Destiny, chance, fate, fortune—they're all just ways of claiming your successes without claiming your failures."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*
"There's some new darkness in the air tonight. If I were you, I'd stay home and lock the doors."
—Ferrick, village warden
"Remember to come back in a few years when that fungus has died off. Then we'll see what's in the chest."
—Old Rutstein
Touma never met a door he didn't hate.
"Her hunger knows no limit. Left unchecked, she would feast on all of Tarkir."
—Yasova Dragonclaw
An explorer's reward is a view of tomorrow's possibilities.

On the volcanic continent of Akoum, bizarre vegetation clusters around gas vents, and jagged mountain peaks rise high into the air.

The Izzet quickly suspended their policy of lifetime guarantees.


"But next time we meet, . . ."

Saprolings add the three and the four to the "one-two punch."
Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti Djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.


"This 'standing windstorm' can hold us off indefinitely? Ridiculous!" Saying nothing, she put a pinch of salt on the table. With a bang she clapped her hands, and the salt disappeared, blown away.

"I know just the person for that job."
The ground itself lends its strength to these walls of living stone, which possess the stability of ancient mountains. These mighty bulwarks thwart ground-based troops, providing welcome relief for weary warriors who defend the land.
By the second night after the kami had drifted into town, the local general store was completely sold out of earplugs.
"It saddens me to lose a source of inspiration. This one seemed especially promising."
—Ashiok
"To invent is to rebel."
—Pia Nalaar



His abode was clean and bare, not a morsel in sight. I asked him what he ate, fearing the answer. He smiled and said his faith alone sustained him.
"Forward! Until the horizon is ours!"
—Khemses, charioteer



"Oglor create life, Oglor take it away. Oglor god! … until Master return."
"I would rather be a heretic than betray my conscience."



Some knights will not follow orders—only disorder.
"And if you threaten me again, your shiny steel trousers will be sprouting daggerthorn vines."
—Iveta, rooftop runner
Having lost their minds, they now want yours.
"O to be a dragon . . . of silkworm size or immense . . ." —Marianne Moore, "O to Be a Dragon"


"The sun kami is terrible to behold. When its temper flares, best seek shade and pray for forgiveness."
—Sensei Golden-Tail

The Viashivan understand that cruelty arises from opportunity.
Size of a pixie, rage of a hellkite.


A weapon of darkness for a warrior of light.
"I want to help Zendikar. Show me the way."
—Nissa Revane

Crovax had witnessed Selenia lead the *Predator* to the *Weatherlight*. As the battle raged on deck, he felt his strength melt in the heat of her betrayal.







"You deify nature as female—kind and gentle—yet you cringe at what is natural."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight*


Doors open both ways.
"The clashing warriors turned to face O-Kagachi, the greatest kami, and their sigh of awe was their last breath."
—*Great Battles of Kamigawa*
The old wizard's experiments destroyed the castle centuries ago. So why does some of the rubble look recent?

"While we fought, the il surrendered."
—Oracle *en*-Vec


The glyphs writhed and twisted, spewing out dark, vengeful magic.
Good bodyguards are hard to find, mainly because they don't live long.


"Locks want to be opened, and treasure wants to be free."
—Nayrex Slipfinger, master thief




If your ears bleed, it's a party. If your eyes bleed, it's a Rakdos party.


When she flies above the good, they consider themselves blessed. When she flies above the wicked, they consider themselves dead.

"That was the worst experience of my days: standing there helpless as they killed my whole troop."
—Maeveen O'Donagh, *Memoirs of a Soldier*

"This palace will be our fire-spit, and roasted prince our victory meal. Send in the torch-pigs!"
—Ghut Rak, Gruul guildmage









It carries the hopes of Zendikar's embattled wilds on its mighty boughs.

The directors of the Riptide Project wanted instant results on the sliver experiments. They got their wish.
It eats what it wants to eat—which is anything that moves.
"We are crops no longer. Reap elsewhere."

"Do not linger in such places, child. There the gwyllions dance. If they find you, you will join in their revels for eternity."
—Talara, elvish safewright
"I stand with every member of my clan, and they stand with me."



In Ravnica, there are maladies far more difficult to treat than death.




They attacked in an orgy of rage and madness, but only one seemed as focused on killing us as on the sheer joy of battle.
Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.


Only the warrior who can admit mortal weakness will be bolstered by immortal strength.
The *Weatherlight* dragged the Predator behind it, the cradle hauling the casket.
"I give them dreams so wondrous that they hesitate to return to the world of the conscious."
—Garild, merfolk mage
Elementals are ideas given form. This one is the idea of "smashitude."





Bantians believe those who are born into the highest caste and live a life of discipline and virtue can ascend to become angels.




"Your pathetic ideas lie in shambles, Planeswalker. Where is your arrogant pride now?"
—Nicol Bolas





They're trained in the art of pressing their luck.

"I am as the wind that bears me: harsh yet gentle, fleeting yet ever-present. Together we fly beyond imagination."

"Linear growth? What am I, a first-year?"

"For all I have lost, for all who have fallen, I will render you to dust."
—Jared Carthalion
Some schools aren't worth getting into.


Life and death are two faces of the same coin.
What it lacks in backbone, it makes up for in cruelty.
To find its center is to find one's own.

Heroes endure; legends prevail.
The symbol of the Conclave is one of unity, with tree supporting sun and sun feeding tree.

"The bones of the past will tell their tales—if you know how to speak their language."
—Savra






"To fill your mind with knowledge, we must start by emptying it."
—Barrin, master wizard

Once he stopped eating tickets, Bixby was a model employee.
"The sun banishes darkness every morning. I too will rise with such assuredness."
—Huatli
The evil inside the mountain pulsed at Nissa in a shock wave of madness.
The lion's only loyalty is to its hunger.


If you fear the dragon's fire, you are unworthy to wield it.
"More of that strange oil . . . It's probably nothing."


The ancient dragon Imvaernarhro has earned his fiery nickname.

"It's a witch's trick, this cauldron full of pain. I wouldn't dump it on any but the wicked."


No one in Aphetto answers a knock at the door after sundown.

"There is nothing you can do that I cannot simply deny."
—Ertai, wizard adept



The Spitfire Bastion bristles with cannons claimed from every ship she's conquered.


"We will start small, I think."
—Volrath
"Not all paths are found on the forest floor."
The land will never betray those who gave their lives for it.
Friends teach what you want to know. Enemies teach what you *need* to know.
"May your veins weep, and may every vampire take notice."
—Stensian curse


"We'll break their lines. The rest of you, follow!"
"A long and difficult incision revealed that all vital organs are housed in the head, save for a long chain of stomachs, forty in all, leading from its throat to the end of the tail."
—Mulak Ffar, *Vastwood Biodiversity*
"I do not miss sunlight. The very memory of it burns my eyes."
—Volrath
"In the gathering there is strength for all who founder, renewal for all who languish, love for all who sing."
—*Song of All*, canto 642
It is the soul of a philosopher who died of starvation contemplating the universe.
"The first caravan has passed safely through the Karplusan Mountains without incident, forging a trade route to Balduvia. Kjeld himself would never have believed it!"
—King Darien of Kjeldor
The fires of Zendikar are always hungry, and there is much on which they can feed.
A soulless husk of endless hunger.
Her triumph came not from achieving her ideal self, but from rejecting the idea of perfection.

"There's only one way to be sure it's really dead."

Seton dreams of life renewed.
It's dangerous indeed to be lost in someone else's thoughts.

"What cannot be destroyed will be bound, but do try to destroy it the first time."
—Rem Karolus, Blade of the Inquisitors



After lightning struck the cliffs, the ore became iron, the iron became steel, and the steel became greaves. The lightning never left.
To his surprise, Furt discovered that the strange creatures were not at all like bugs.
"A fine example of the rewards of artifice: a thoroughly obedient steed with wings of Soldevi steel."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist

"Has your peaceful nature led you on a crusade?"
—Watnik, master glassblower
Pir always had a *very *big imagination.
You're on your way home when you spot the gates of a strange city . . . one that isn't on the map and wasn't here when you traveled this path four days ago.



Akros's greatest heroes are also its royalty.


Rumors quickly spread among thieves about a labyrinth without walls and a prize beyond all measures of worth.

The murdered inhabitants of Hollowhenge impart to the living the terror they felt in death.




A mimic need only touch a being to learn its shape, but touching usually leads to mauling and messily eating.



Nothing lives within it, yet there is life.
The Patriarch is long dead, but his name still stains the lips of cultists.








Some view Domri's unlikely ascent as a sign of Ilharg the Raze-Boar's imminent return.
"Holy places are no longer sanctuary from death, and death is no longer sanctuary from anything."
@-Thalia, Knight-Cathar


He sees a flicker of Avacyn's grace in every wingbeat.

"He is Yawgmoth's reward to me. I shall kill him a hundred times a day."
—Crovax, to Ertai

Studying the journals of the necromage Nevinyrral leaves disciples gripped with the urge to exercise his draconian judgment.
The great hart stood like a statue, its hide painted gold by the dawn. The Champion laid down her weapons and stepped forward within an arm's length of the beast. The hart, sacred to Heliod and bathed in the god's own light, bowed to the Champion, marking her as the Chosen of the Sun God.
—*The Theriad*




"Such a lord as this—all virtues' height— Had never been, nor ever was again."
"The ainok are wild dogs, not fit to join us around the fire."
—Surrak, the Hunt Caller


The wisest man builds his house *behind* the rock.

Necroluminescence is common among the undead creatures of Sedgemoor, giving the midnight swamp an eerie glow. It's comforting—from a distance.
"Like a thousand candles fighting back the darkness, we are strongest when we stand together."

The oni leapt easily from peak to peak, toying with its victims, its voice a purr from the rumbling depths of nightmare.
"You aren't invited."


"I am the purifier, the light that clears all shadows."
—Seal inscription





Centaurs are sent to evangelize in Gruul territories where words of war speak louder than prayers of peace.
It is a monument as austere, unyielding, and inscrutable as Esper itself.

"What weapon will you bear against one who's mastered them all?"



It contains the totality of Alhammarret's notes, theories, and ponderings.
"Within minutes, the strange device was indistinguishable from the other upon my workbench."
@-Tocasia, journal entry
"Never forget our ancestors. They have not forgotten us."
—Mikaeus, the Lunarch
In New Capenna, it's survival of the richest.


"The seas are vast, but the skies are even more so. Why be content with one kingdom when I can rule them both?"


"You can sign, or you can spend your life imagining what might have been yours."
Some say Banshees are the hounds of Death, baying to herd their prey into the arms of their master.

It has germinated in the earth for thousands of years. Finally it wakes to the battle's call.

Nothing restrains a burning passion.

"I believe it when they say they're connected to the land—looks like somebody plowed her face."
—Tahngarth of the *Weatherlight*

"He watches from above. He watches from below. He watches from within."
—Inscription on Tel-Jilad, the Tree of Tales
"Deal with the spawn of Phyrexia cautiously; only with time may we control them."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist


"The steering horns ain't steering!"
"When elephants fight it is the grass that suffers."
—Kikuyu proverb


"It's both an ingress-denial mechanism and an attractive hallway light!"
—Daxiver, Izzet electromancer
"Four things that never meet do here unite To shed my blood and to ravage my heart, A radiant brow and tresses that beguile And rosy cheeks and a glittering smile." —*The Arabian Nights*, trans. Haddawy

"Gnawed to death. Bad way to go."
"A bolt to the eye, a blade to the neck. That's the way to clear the deck!"
His verdict is always guilty. His sentence is always death.




"Jund is a wounded world. Beware its searing blood spilling out onto the surface."
—Rakka Mar
A pangolin's scales are resistant to all sorts of damage and weaponry. Desire for them threatens to drive the pangolin to extinction.
"Put a minotaur at the head of an army and suddenly all the soldiers act like they have horns."
—Gideon Jura

"Every moment has its own savior."
"The silkworm spins itself a new existence. So the healer weaves the threads of life."
—Orim, Samite healer

Each cut stains his blade with fresh blood that he samples to increase his strength.
Beautiful to behold, terrible to be held.


While it's true most Dragons are cruel, the Shivan Dragon seems to take particular glee in the misery of others, often tormenting its victims much like a cat plays with a mouse before delivering the final blow.
By the time the Blood Angels descended from the heavens, Phodia was a city transformed. Miles of flesh-filled rivers fed into the central digestion pools and up into the hive fleet above.

Formerly oppressed by the polis of Meletis, leonin occasionally "mistake" their old enemies for game.
Her given name has been lost in the mists of time. Legend says that her silent vigil will one day be ended by the one who, pure of heart and spirit, calls out that name again.

Harthag gave a jolly laugh as he surveyed the army before him. "Ho ho ho! Midgets! You think you can stand in my way?"
With great power comes great risk of getting yourself killed.

The path to ruin is forged in pain.
Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.








"One look at this glorious item convinced me that Kaladesh deserved my full attention. Sure enough, my time here has yielded exquisite fruit."
—Tezzeret
The kor send their thopter kites to see if the land is in a welcoming mood.





In a culture of beauty, the most beautiful are worshipped as gods.

Is it six?
The scrape of shovels and the tumble of cold dirt soon muffled their pleas.
"Wherever the strong would harm the weak, I will be there."
—Ajani Goldmane





Its hooves strike lightning and the thunder follows quickly after.
In ancient times, precepts of kami law were inscribed onto bridges as a gesture of respect. During the war, humans regarded them as warnings of where not to travel.
Slivers can turn a last stand into a stunning victory.


One of the many reasons why open-air markets close at dusk.
For every action, there is a swifter and more violent reaction.
All of Zendikar's beings sense the upheaval that accompanies the Eldrazi.

As the time streams grew more and more unstable, Dominaria's creatures struggled to adapt. The intense pressures led to many dead ends but also to lethal new forms that appeared as suddenly as the ashen rains.
"Where are falling feathers deadlier than falling rock?"
—*The One Thousand Questions*
"While, like a ghastly rapid river,
Through the pale door,
A hideous throng rush out forever,
And laugh—but smile no more."
—Edgar Allan Poe, "The Haunted Palace"

"The spirit of the stone is the spirit of strength."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain

"Take this item, for instance. How would it destroy us, Relicbane?"
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"The ancient Necron race has achieved this pinnacle of elegance through their relentless pursuit of utility."
—Tech-Priest Darvin, executed for heresy 1256998.M41

"Knowledge demands sacrifice."

Murky Otarian tides hide the forgotten treacheries of the Phyrexian war.
His verdict is always guilty. His sentence is always death.
"Rage is not the answer. Rage followed by fitting vengeance is the answer."
—Ajani Goldmane
"The finest minions know what I need without me ever saying a thing."
—Liliana Vess
It embodies all possible meanings of the word "infinite."

「どうやってそれを手に入れたのだ？ いや、気にするな。答えは聞きたくない。」
—-ロアホールドの学部長、プラーグ




They call it "stitcher's anesthesia," a spell to deaden the senses while the mad doctors begin their grisly work.
"Target eradicated. That which burns shall never be blessed."
—Fusilave unit Tor-213
You were born at sea, and your legs are steadiest when the waves are rowdiest.

"Your signet is no symbol of power. It marks only your need for numbers to aid you. What do you do, guild-rat, now that you face my blade alone?"
Age wears the flesh but galvanizes the soul.

In the gardens of the centaurs, many travelers have mysteriously vanished while admiring the elaborate topiaries.

"No elf can match a Tuskeri in combat. Why not charge?"
—Knorjolvin, Tuskeri raider
"The Way has no beginning and no end. It is simply the path."
—Narset, khan of the Jeskai


Where the nefashu pass, blood rolls like a silk carpet.
"Look, and see the future."
—Ayli, high priest of the Eternal Pilgrims


The Harvesttide dance is one of joyous abandon, a last revel before winter nights.
"I preferred the harsh tutors—they made mischief all the more fun."
—Teferi, third-level student
"The Simic offer a prize to any biomancer who can breed a krasis to match a griffin in the air. It's never been claimed."
—Libuse, Boros sergeant

Myconid colonies grow and expand at an aggressive rate, but they are friendly and peaceful unless provoked.

Possession is ten-tenths of the law.



A sliver shares everything with its hive—even its afflictions.

Mines became common as cities during the days of the artificers.


From here, the path to anywhere may be found.
Each weapon is as unique as the champion who carried it to battle.
"My time will come, when all the world will be reforged in the fires of my invention."
Those who fail to respect power will soon be consumed by it.





"Places, everyone!"
—Judith
As the fusillade of lasgun fire bounced harmlessly off the carnifex's carapace, the creature roared and advanced.



From Gaea grew the world, and the world was silent. From Gaea grew the world's elves, and the world was silent no more.
—Elvish teaching
"This creature is inadequate. Send it to the splicers for innovation."
—Malcator, Executor of Synthesis
"I can give you strength, but you'll have to bring your own courage."

It eats and eats until the juiciest morsel it can find is itself.

Vela snuffs out every trace of Krond's reign, leaving pure nightfall in her wake.

Raksha watched as the goblins continued to pour onto the Razor Fields. "They just don't know when to stop, do they?"

As the green sun crowned, Phyrexian prophecies glowed on the Tree of Tales.
"When I have meditated on all outcomes, my opponent has no recourse."


Those gifted with the sight have one eye in the present and the other in the future.
All crave the Blessed Sleep. Few receive it.


No one remains on her list for long.
"Do not try to make sense of the chimera. Impossibility is its habitat."
—Kydele, prophet of Kruphix
"The cathars have their swords, the inquisitors their axes. I prefer the 'diplomatic' approach."
—Terhold, archmage of Drunau
He bids his minions rise from their graves to their knees.

Dweldian magi don't enter the Realm of Thrones when they die. Instead their souls are drawn to great works of magic.


Mightiest of the cat warriors, Jedit Ojanen forsook the forests of his tribe and took service with the Robaran Mercenaries, rising through their ranks to lead them in the battle for Efrava.
Waiting is for chumps with flimsy spacesuits.




"My visions don't show me home. They show me where home is yet to be found."


Bloated with venom, it crawls Grixis looking for victims to ooze onto.
As Phyrexians descended, Multani paused to reflect on the beauty that might never be seen again.
"May the River claim Cho-Manno's body, wherever it lies."
—Ta-Karnst, Cho-Arrim healer



"My masterpiece is complete—and so shall be my triumph."
—Saldrath, master artificer





Druids of the Circle of the Moon are fierce guardians of nature who haunt the deepest parts of the wilderness.

The litany of the infernal on his flesh pulses to the beating of his dark heart.
"Now do you understand what we meant when we said *disperse*?"
—Eksari, Boros patrol leader
"He is judge, jury, and executioner because he killed them all."
—Bishop Cawle of Elgaud
After the Foundry Street riot, Arrester Hulbein tried to ban bludgeons. Which, inevitably, resulted in another riot.
"Welcome to my collection."


She follows the old tributaries built when merrows still shaped the tides.
"The endurance of the ancient turtles in a land so harsh makes a strong case for patience, tranquility, and composure."
—Gavi, nest warden
The trainer awoke to begin the journey from the wurm's tail to its head. The sun was setting when she arrived.

After finding no sustenance on the edges of Grixis, it turned to the skies of Bant.


"My family was saved thanks to a single Boros soldier. It's why I joined the Legion. I will be the protector now."
"A good lamp will light your way. A good ring will clear it."
—Nervan, royal jeweler
"Some relic hunters have given up exploring and gone to fight the Eldrazi. But I know our work is more important than ever. The secrets we uncover could lead to the world's salvation."
"Never cross a Pyknite, if you value your scalp."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain

The draugr often drown intruders. Years later, their corpses rise from the depths to join the ranks of the Dread Marn.
The smallest seed of regret can bloom into redemption.
Descendant of a vanished land, student of a forgotten general, and master of blades no smith could forge anew. He honors them all by living a life worthy of song.

"Serra isn't dead. She lives on through me."
"What is mana but possibility, an idea not yet given form?"
—Jhoira, master artificer

"Jarad fancies himself king of the undercity, but he's merely king of rot."


"I have seen entire civilizations rise and fall. You mortals are but dust to me."
—Sorin Markov
"The distraction of your life has ended. Now your service begins."
—Kalitas, thrall of Ulamog
"But high she shoots through air and light, Above all low delay, Where nothing earthly bounds her flight, Nor shadow dims her way."
—Thomas Moore, "Oh that I had Wings"
All must fall, and those who stand highest fall hardest.
"Let no one say we did not fight until the last . . . ."
—Headstone fragment from a mass grave found in the Crimson Peaks
Predicting the future is a messy business.
Strong wings make strong winds.
Paladins of the Sanctum Seeker order are an adventurous lot, venturing into the wilds with monstrous mastiffs at their side.
"Many have sought my weakness. All have failed."

"More of that strange oil . . . It's probably nothing."
Rebels and other malcontents forced into the ritual awake lost in Topa's vast savannahs. Those who find their way back return humble and repentant.


Sorin has gathered grudges for centuries, patiently awaiting the day he can exact the perfect vengeance.
Abandoning his sword to return to the lush forest of Pendelhaven, Jacques le Vert devoted his life to protecting the creatures of his homeland.
"They who challenge a minotaur enjoy the taste of their own blood."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight*
"It's a dragon-infested lavascape of notorious peril. Make yourselves at home."

"The trick is, once you get moving, don't stop!"
He gives credit where credit isn't due.

Chandra never believed in using her "inside voice."
The insectile kraul lurk in the tunnels below street level. Many are loyal to the Golgari Swarm, but others follow their own esoteric caste system.

Judgment without hope.

"Resist if you must. It makes no difference. As with Mirrodin, your world will bow to Phyrexia."
—Sheoldred

"The battle is won. There's work to be done. / The Blessed Sleep must wait. / A fiend is about. It stalks the devout. / I'll save them from my fate."
—"The Good Geist's Vow"




"Hear that? No? That's a cat warrior."
In opulent chambers behind closed doors, dynasties are made and broken but with a few murmured words.

"They distrust my methods, but when they want results, whom do you think they seek?"
—*Incantations of Lim-Dûl*
Long ago, the priests would wave the gohei to call down the gods. Now it lies forgotten, but the spirits still feel its pull.

Every part of the gate was reclaimed from forgotten ruins and imbued with new purpose by the Swarm.
Dragon lords of Jund rule by edicts of flame.
Nicol Bolas doesn't distinguish between servants and victims.
Their favorite food? Wind dancers.
It can barely feel the sword anymore.


The mage breathed in life-giving air and breathed out death-bringing fire.










"A true warrior fights with whatever's handy."
—Qerk of the Secret Warren


"Why infiltrate their strongholds when what we seek resides in such a poorly guarded safe?"
—Malcator, Executor of Synthesis



The end of evolution.


The Sun Empire's most sacred sites are protected by more than prayers.
"Talk later. Row now!"

The spirit cares nothing for the crimes or triumphs of the slain. It shelters all beneath its stormy cloak.
Even through the Mirari's voice, the elves still hear the call of their kinship.



"I'll call you Reginald, and you're Mimi, and you're Tank, and you're Bobo..."
Not since the days of Pashalik Mons have the Rundvelt goblins been so united or effective.
"As you inject the *viscus vitae* into the brain stem, don't let the spastic moaning bother you. It will soon become music to your ears."
—Stitcher Geralf
"There is always more to give."

"The Ancestor protects us in ways we can't begin to comprehend."
—Mystic elder

"The Abzan replaced my savagery with a noble heritage. I would give my life for my House."


"Each year that passes rings you inwardly with memory and might. Wield your heart, and the world will tremble."
"Our lives, our homes, and all our history are at risk. Do not speak to me of peace."
The ohran viper is not cold-blooded. Its veins course with the same antigelid venom used to kill its prey.

"This is why we don't go out in banewasp weather."
—Rannon, Vithian holdout
"With rope, I can fly as far as the rope can reach. But with light, the sky is the limit."

Deep in the heart of Urborg lie massive volcanoes whose thick black smoke covers the land with perpetual darkness.


The wolf's captor hid his fear, but he knew someday the runes would fail, the collar would break, and the wolf would remember his face.


The mourning families of commanders and generals were often given land, valuables, or money to compensate for their losses.
From rebellion against the Akoum Skyclave to fighting the Eldrazi titans, the dragon-riding Kargan tribes have never missed an opportunity to defy the odds.
"Rise, my pretty thing. Why rot in the river when you can serve at my bidding?"
"Whatever you're looking for—food, family, Halo—we've got the best in town."
"A mirror does more than reflect reality—it shapes it."
—Niko Aris
For the necro-alchemist, any puzzle can be solved with intelligence and harvested body parts.
The Keldons didn't know her name, but they still cursed her in battle.

Feldon found the first of these canes frozen in the Ronom Glacier.

"These, of all spells, must have common components I can isolate and use."
—Halvor Arensson, Kjeldoran Priest
Mercy is for those who keep their distance.



The person who finishes a journey is rarely the same as the one who starts it.
The musical sound of its turning triggers the tumblers of revelation.
Faced with the novel problem of inspiring an army, Jace asked himself: "What would Gideon say?"
He watches the pass in both directions, and all must pay his toll.
The Temur have no patience for subtlety.


Its wings disturb more than air.



"Dagsson should have paid attention to the lessons of Phyrexia before attempting to create a mechanical utopia."
—Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi Heretic
Rather than sheltering her young, the female Fungusaur often injures her own offspring, thereby ensuring their rapid growth.

"Your service shall be rewarded."
—Queen Lian
"The woods hold peace for those who desire it, but those who seek battle will find me."
Karn's creation allowed him to monitor events across Dominaria—and everything he saw worried him.



Kamahl left the violence of his former life behind him, but he still believes in the power of muscle.
"What do you have that I cannot obtain?"
—Mairsil, called the Pretender


The transition from spiritual to material is sometimes as shocking as it is beautiful.

"I'm one masterpiece away from ruling this pathetic world."
—Saldrath, master artificer


Entrepreneurs have attempted to sell the water, but to no avail. Whatever magic it contains disappears upon bottling.

"Heel."
You love the smell of dusty tomes, the flicker of candles during late-night reading, and the old texts that bring to life the scholars who have come before.

"I'm one masterpiece away from ruling this pathetic world."
—Saldrath, master artificer


Dweldian magi don't enter the Realm of Thrones when they die. Instead their souls are drawn to great works of magic.
"The only constant in life is the unknown."
"Even steel and stone return to Ghrin-Danu in time."
@-Katilda, Dawnhart Prime

"To wage war, secure peace within yourself."
—Emmara
"When everything looks like a nail, you really need to get yourself a hammer."
—Krol, goblin furnace-priest

"Sometimes the hardest choice is between two wonders."
—Gadwick, the Wizened


This secret society of mages manipulates the beliefs and opinions of others.
Murky Otarian tides hide the forgotten treacheries of the Phyrexian war.



"Die. But die knowing that your pathetic life will yield a great bounty for me."
@-Zul Ashur, lich lord
" . . . And the third little boar built his house out of rootwalla plates . . . ."
—Skyshroud children's story
"When I meditate I see the world as it should be. All that does not fit, I remove."
—Alovnek, Boros guildmage
"The sun rises, but the world still feels dark. Pray for the arrival of the malachim—they'll bring Dawn to the world and to our hearts."
—Sister Betje, *Miracles of the Saints*
"Never corner a barbarian. You become the path of least resistance."
—Sarkhan Vol
"I could do this all day."



"Relax. I'm a professional."




Urza exploited nature to power his war machines; in time, nature exploited his war machines to renew itself.

"We will give you the peace you seek, though you may not yet know you seek it."
The message was clear to Sorin—Nahiri had paid Markov Manor a visit.

Dimir rank and file never see nor hear their guildmaster. All orders are given through mysterious necrosages who appear from the shadows, tersely toss out a command, and then melt into the darkness.



Torching Krosa would be pointless. It grows faster than it burns.
The renegades mounted an aether disruptor aboard a lightweight thopter to destroy Tezzeret's Planar Bridge.

The light sigh of its breath whistles through its bones.
"I'd be happy to stop contradicting you, Urza, just as soon as you start being right."
—Bo Levar, planeswalker

"Once in the box, we're all the same."
One eye sees the past, one the present, and one the future—and none can be deceived.

"It had a mouth like that of a great beast, and gnashed its teeth as it strained to reach us. I am thankful it possessed no means of locomotion."
—Vervamon the Elder



It's not the size of the rock. It's how badly you want to lift it.
Keldon warriors don't need signals to tell them when to attack. They need signals to tell them when to stop.
Limited time offer. Void where prohibited. Limit one per purchase. Valid only in participating duels. This coupon is nontransferable and invalid if shattered, crumbled, detonated, pillaged, or otherwise disenchanted. Cash value less than 1/20 of a cent. Offer not valid in Quebec, Rhode Island, or where prohibited by law or the DCI.



Ancient lore locked in a mind driven mad is just as safe as when it was locked deep underground.


"The realm must never yield to the chaos of the wilds."
I've learned how to disable wards, pick locks, and decode the Agaran language—all before even reading the scroll!

The beating of a gargoyle's wings on the air is like the cracking of stones. Intruders who rouse a gargoyle are certain to hear the cracking of bones.

When wielded by a true believer, it matters little whether the sword is a relic or a replica.
"The forest has as many eyes as leaves."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight*
A single seed unleashes a flurry of growth.
"There are some qualities—some incorporate things,/ That have a double life, which thus is made/ A type of twin entity which springs/ From matter and light, evinced in solid and shade." —Edgar Allan Poe, "Silence"



He rose from the graf for every cobbler, tanner, and fool who'd been slaughtered in the parish—and they rose and shambled after him.
"May the memory of our fallen heroes ensnare the violent hearts of lesser men."
—Great Threshold of Monserkat inscription




Flowstone troops are notoriously difficult to keep in formation.
In the treetops, unseen by many, lurks chittering, skittering death.

Ob Nixilis smiled. It had been over one thousand years since his last conquest.




"Darigaaz is the breath of the ur-dragon, burning away the burdens of mortality."

It's easy to stand head and shoulders over those with no backbone.

"The Roil can be directed. Observe."


Though they lack true flesh and bone of their own, changelings imitate either with equal ease.
A scavenger's favorite appetizer is death.

"Take one wrong step out here and you're dead. I take only right steps."
Explosions aren't necessarily failures, just a different kind of success.

Devils find human dwellings to be oppressively cold, dark, and unburnt.
"Death not for survival but for vanity and pleasure? This is the decadence I sought to curb."
—Sorin Markov



"Look at her, once filled with innocence. Death has a way of wringing away such . . . deficiencies."
—Savra

"You will not be trained here. You will be forged."
—Commander Yaszen



The passing of the sai presages the end of the old clan and the ascent of the new.


"Why do they say you shouldn't play with fire? Fire is the best thing to play with!"
It's sent into unguilded districts by the Orzhov to collect the souls of those no one will miss.


The Forge embraces all who contribute to the Great Work.

"It rose above our heads, above the ship, and still higher yet. No foggy, ice-laden sea in the world could frighten me more."
—General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox
"The beauty of it is they never see it coming. Ever."
—Razzix, sparkmage

When Huatli chooses a mount, its eyes glow with the flames of the sun.
"Modern Sarpadia's swarming with thrulls. It's a testament to the orcs that they've survived there so long."
—Elbieta, Argivian scholar
Travelers' tales claim that hydras bite off their own heads to make themselves deadlier.
"We'll be easy targets if we remain on the ground. Let's take the fight to them."
With limited resources and near unlimited time, Kerrick used parts from one beast to build another.
Free from Consulate regulations, renegade-built automatons push performance to the limit.

Few ever see this particular breed of kavu, which hides in forests of its own making.
At Nahiri's call, Emrakul traversed the vast emptiness between the planes and arrived on Innistrad.
Hard as stone and twice as stubborn.
—Dwarven compliment
When Mirrodin's varied civilizations developed ways to fight the levelers, Memnarch upped the stakes.

"The land promises nothing and keeps its promise."
—Oracle *en*-Vec

"How did I ever let myself get talked into this project?"
—Toothlicker Harj, orcish captain
The more they survey the dreadful dry expanses, the more the cephalids thirst to tame them.



"For centuries my creation kept this world in balance. Now only her shadow remains."
—Sorin Markov



Before signing anything on Grixis, always read the fine print.
It woke to find a vast world in need of a master.
Not all of Terisiare's flooding was natural . . . .
"May the memory of our fallen heroes ensnare the violent hearts of lesser men."
—Great Threshold of Monserkat inscription

"The poacher's trade isn't monster parts. It's myth. People pay to be part of the fantasy."
—Kelsien, the Plague


In the face of extinction, the most perilous endeavors can be cause for hope.

"Thraben is our home and I will not see it fall to this unhallowed horde."

Good bodyguards are hard to find, mainly because they don't live long.


"This monstrosity will do—for now."
—Davvol, Evincar of Rath






It's easy to believe the monster is a myth—until you feel three hundred thousand pounds of myth crashing down on your ship.
"Next!"


"My priests swore loyalty to the Cabal not until death, but beyond it."
—Cabal Patriarch
Your father has no horns!
Your mother wears a bell!
You drink the milk of goats!
—Talruum taunts
Acolytes of Purphoros hammer the world until they see the sparks of change.
"Kill the queen first, or we'll be fighting her drones forever. It is not in a queen's nature to have enough servants."
—Borzard, exterminator captain


"We must rely on our own knowledge, not on the dogma of the seekers or the mutterings of the sphinxes."
—Tullus of Palandius

The ancient magic of the sun elves keeps these lands in an eternal summer.
"There are many kinds of duty, and mine is to see our world grow and endure."
A scorpion this big you won't find curled up in your boot. Maybe *around* your boot, but not *in* it.


"The world is already run by all manner of machines. One day, they'll remind us of that fact."
—Sargis Haz, artificer
For wisdom's sake, it was built high to gaze on all things. For glory's sake, it was built high as a testament of power. For strength's sake, it was built high to repel all attacks.





"I don't think they'll appreciate my . . . adjustments."
—Karavin, renegade saboteur

Time has ground mountains to sand, but the slivers ever remain.
"Much can be gained from the appearance of vulnerability."
—Ezuri, renegade leader






Statistically mind-staggering as it might seem, the term "mise" was in fact coined simultaneously by over one thousand Magic players.

"There's nothing I wouldn't give to achieve victory. Can you say the same?"
—Tsabo Tavoc, to Gerrard
Thieves know that a snarl in the night means, "Rob another house."



"You are safest in Candlekeep, Abdel, but I cannot keep you from the world forever."
In the Cabal, death is just another mark of devotion.
"Our belief shall be the lance that pierces Volrath's heart."
While it possesses potent venom, the Giant Spider often chooses not to paralyze its victims. Perhaps the creature enjoys the gentle rocking motion caused by its captives' struggles to escape its web.

A stitcher's attempt at a skaab with a soul.

Rakshasa offer deals that sound advantageous to those who forget who they are dealing with.
"Do not react to force in kind. Turn it aside. Direct it to where it can do no harm."
—Meloku the Clouded Mirror
There was no darker or more evil creation in all the multiverse than that of the mana screw.
All crave the Blessed Sleep. Few receive it.

Out of the blackness and stench of the engulfing swamp emerged a shimmering figure. Only the splattered armor and ichor-stained sword hinted at the unfathomable evil the knight had just laid waste.

"With the right tools, even the sky is within reach."
Keranos is a fickle god, delivering punishment as readily as prophecy.
"Light passing through a powerstone is refracted by eternity and colored by planar energy. I wonder how the world appeared through Urza's eyes?"
—Teferi
"Bright spores coalesced in empty air. Seedlings burst through barren soil. Genesis had arrived.
—*Scroll of Beginnings*
"At harvest are seeds of next year sown."

The restless geists of common folk often continue their lifelong labors.

"Just think how strong I'll be if my arms don't tear off!"

"One life at a time. That is how the world will be saved."
"How many claws does a monster have? Exactly one more than you've accounted for."
—Alux, Skysail defender



At the battle of Chang'an, Ma Chao defeated the two generals Cao Cao sent to guard the pass but was forced to flee when Cao Cao's trickery turned his own ally against him.
"Nothing will cool the fire in their blood. They are too far gone. We must keep them away from our towns at any cost."
—Cosper Lowe of the Silbern Guard
"This is how wars are won—not with armies of soldiers but with a single knife blade, artfully placed."
—Yurin, royal assassin





A moment in time made tangible, it has the power to realize epic visions.
Hiring an experienced wilderness guide isn't cheap, but it costs less than a search party. Or a funeral.

By the time a Consulate sanction becomes official, the renegade quicksmiths have already found a way to circumvent it.
Leave no treasure behind.

"We will grow an army large enough to withstand the Izzet's madness."
—Trostani

When griffins started nesting atop the northern tower, the castellan worried they'd be a nuisance. Instead, they took the entire castle under their protection.
"It is hope, hooved and winged."
—Cymede, queen of Akros

The terrors of the Underworld travel alongside those who return to the mortal realm.
"On dark nights you can still see the light of the Vess girl's lantern out in the Caligo, seeking her lost brother. Those who follow are doomed to join her endless search."
—"The Fall of the House of Vess"
"Though it may take an eternity, I will see the myriad dynasties united once more."






"My drivers are trustworthy. I removed their tongues myself. Any other questions?"

They lament the doom that is coming to Bant without realizing the part their own leaders have played in it.

Phyrexians spent countless hours unsuccessfully trying to harvest and recreate blinkmoth serum.

"They groaned, they stirred, they all uprose, Nor spake, nor moved their eyes; It had been strange, even in a dream, To have seen those dead men rise."
—Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"


"My minions serve me in the light; I serve no one."
—Shauku, Endbringer
"Lately I've seen the biggest bounties of my career—and for the biggest names."
"To survive exceptional times we must adapt by exceptional means."
—Vannifar
The Simic use the claws as scalpels, while the Rakdos use them for tattooing and torture. The Gruul use them to pick their teeth after lunching on the rest of the carcass.


"Crovax knows we're coming now," said a grinning Sisay. "I just sent the *Predator* crashing into his stronghold."

In the Rite of Redemption, nobles take the same vows as Elenda, the first vampire, and make the same eternal sacrifice.

His beasts move the great siege towers of the Abzan across the endless sands.
"All this nonsense made by mages
Rusts and crumbles through the ages."
—Aline Corralurn, "Inheritance"
A fight put off forever is already won.


It's not like anyone else really wanted it.

Timing is everything.
A hollow dog is never empty. It is filled with thirst for the hunt.

Chasms of dueling energies course within her.

"I've lit most everything on fire—trees, rocks, even the water. Now it's time to burn the clouds."
The intricate dynamics of Rundvelt Goblin affairs are often confused with anarchy. The chaos, however, is the chaos of a thundercloud, and direction will sporadically and violently appear. Pashalik Mons and his raiders are the thunderhead that leads in the storm.


"Weren't you ever taught that it's rude to interrupt?"








"Mystery is beauty. Within the unknown we plumb revelation."
—Vannifar



"Chronomancers have a rather different definition of living in the moment."
—*The Millennium Tome*
"I see their moral dilemmas. I see their raw courage. I see their self-sacrifice. I see our victory."

"Artifice is not the only form of creation."
—Titania

The mating habits of Treefolk, particularly the stalwart Ironroot Treefolk, are truly absurd. Molasses comes to mind. It's amazing the species can survive at all given such protracted periods of mate selection, conjugation, and gestation.


"Our sanctuaries must be beacons of reason and calm or else they will fall."

"¡Yo quiero Kormus Bell!"
"The blazekite is a simple concept, really—just a vehicular application of dragscoop ionics and electropropulsion magnetronics."
—Juzba, Izzet tinker
"We do not believe in hiding our wealth in the shadows. This is Orzhov, and this is how we reward greatness."
—Teysa Karlov, Grand Envoy of Orzhov

"Strength is what keeps us alive. Compassion is what keeps us human."
"Life for life: this is the immutable law."
—Panya, Granger Guildmage




The skifsang, seafarers of Nephalia, craft spells like other sailors craft nets—making them strong enough to snare even the deadliest catch.





Venser wondered if it could still be called a teleportation spell if the destination is oblivion.
"Why listen to the mumblings of wizards when the lash speaks true?"


Masters of the arcane savor a delicious irony. Their study of deep and complex arcana leads to such a simple end: the ability to say merely yes or no.



The last reliable landmark in Tazeem just walked away.
"Don't be silly. Panthers don't hunt in packs!"
—Jego, disgraced archdruid

"Don't worry. I'm not going to deprive you of all your secrets. Just your most precious one."
—Liliana Vess



It is a monument as austere, unyielding, and inscrutable as Esper itself.

"I will be your most demanding master, Liliana. But I have great things in mind for you."







"Our people and our very lands disappear as if they never were. We no longer fight for glory, or honor. We battle now for the right to exist."
—General Tazri, allied commander











"Flourishing during the Ice Age, these wurms were the bane of all Kjeldorans. Their great size and ferocity made them the subject of countless nightmares—they embodied the worst of the Ice Age."
—*Kjeldor: Ice Civilization*
"Violence is the food it craves. Feed it if you dare."
—Doriel, mentor of Mistral Isle




Fire Elementals are ruthless infernos, annihilating and consuming their foes in a frenzied holocaust. Crackling and blazing, they sear swift, terrible paths, leaving the land charred and scorched in their wake.

"I search for a vision of Zendikar that does not include the Eldrazi."
—Expedition journal entry
Some aetherborn joined the rebellion for profit, others for the sake of their freedom, still others for revenge.

RSVP at your own risk.



"We need alternatives, Hanna," yelled Gerrard. "Now!"


"After making me, Zhou Yu, did you have to make Kongming?"
—Zhou Yu crying to heaven on his deathbed
"We order them to stand, they stand. We order them to wait, they wait. We order them to die, they die."
—Pontifex, elder researcher




Sometimes the closet *is* the monster.


"Even steel and stone return to Ghrin-Danu in time."
—Katilda, Dawnhart Prime
Plant life in the valley changes for the worse as runoff from dwarven forges contaminates the water.


Zendikar's seas are deeper than anyone can fathom.

You've heard rumors of bandits along the Coast Way, but your journey so far has even surprisingly uneventful.

"Fear the dark if you must, but don't mistake sunlight for safety."
—Josu Vess
"In the drowsy dark cave of the mind, dreams build their nest with fragments dropped from day's caravan."
—Rabindranath Tagore
There's no stronger armor than the bravery of those beside you.


Furnace air crackles with magmatic cackles.

Backstabbing is common within demonic cults. So are front- and side-stabbing.
Bears get vicious when they don't sleep. This one hasn't slept in ages.
"Teach by example. If your students do not survive, they were not worth the lesson."
—General Varchild
"I must speak with Momir Vig about creating a water-spouting watchdog."
—Mathvan, Prahv scrollwarden
"They're smart enough to understand that war means lots of carrion."
—Griv, condor rider
Its graceful glide paints the ocean floor with strokes of luminescence.

"Glory to the Burning Ones! May their mighty fangs devour all foes!"



As the price of wood and coal rose, smiths found creative ways to keep their forges burning.

A full coffin is like a full coffer—both are attractive to thieves.


The void is without substance but cuts like steel.
"It's all right if you change your mind. There's always a chance we can rearrange parts later."
—Zija, Simic mutationist


"A zombie's bed must be a lumpy one or he wouldn't leave it so often."
—Rana, Suq'Ata market fool


"You'll never get to the top if you don't know who's already there."
@-Kaya


Many initiates believe it possesses secrets beyond imagining. Many have become meals trying to learn them.

"Dear brother, it's sweet that you have chosen to share your toys with Ludevic, but I too have found some new playmates."
—Ghoulcaller Gisa
Lyna turned to the figure beside her. "They're gone. What now?"
"As ever," said Urza, "we wait."
Icatia's once-peaceful towns faced increasing attacks from orcs and goblins as the climate cooled. By the time the empire fell, they were little more than armed camps.





Nothing quickens the predator's blood like the unfamiliar scents of new hunting grounds and the mewling cries of new prey.
"The one who conquers the mind is greater than the one who conquers the world."
Once you've been dragged down the currents of time, you'll never quite trust your own permanence again.
"From up here we can drop rocks and arrows and more rocks!"
"Uh, yeah boss, but how do we get down?"
Enter and comprehend the perfection of orchestrated life.


"I am the unraveler, the loosened thread that will not hold."
—Seal inscription
Interlopers in Sultai territory usually end up as crocodile chow or baboon bait.

"It's easy for the innocent to speak of justice. They seldom feel its terrible power."
—Orim, Samite inquisitor

Between matches, combatants practice to stay in peak mental and physical form.

"A flash of the lightning, a break of the wave, He passes from life to his rest in the grave."
—William Knox, "Mortality"
With the Hekma destroyed, the wandering dead that sought entrance to Naktamun had free rein to lay waste to the city.
For the Simic Combine, its sigil serves not as an emblem of honor but as a trademark. Its familiar image on any biological commodity attests to superb craftsmanship, ingenious innovation, and higher cost.

Heinrich catches the trapeze only about half the time, but he looks so good falling.
Her hunger will not be denied.
"One score and four he reigned, the Southland king: / A dragon coiled, a tiger poised below the mighty Yangtze."



"Focus your mind. Do you hold a piece of the ocean or a thousand drops of rain?"
—Hurkyl



One shard of Selenia yet remained.


Duplication is neither thievery nor flattery. It is efficiency.
It doesn't point north. It points home.
A word of vengeance, and her arrows awaken in flame.
"With the Brotherhood of Gix whispering in his ear, Mishra's drive to prove himself was slowly twisted into an insatiable hunger for power."
@-The Antiquities War
"Even if we defeat it, what remains to be saved?"
—Glissa Sunseeker

Beyond pain, beyond obsession and wild despair, there lies a place of twisted power only the most tormented souls can reach.
"Let the Imperials search our laboratories. Will they think to look for secrets in a pretty bauble?"
—Emire, director of the Saiba Futurists
The missing piece to every puzzle.

Hazoret's gift is bestowed only once.


All are prey to the eyes of the wild.
"Some aspire to climb the mountain of Honor. The Benalish are born upon its peak, and from there ascend among the stars."
—*History of Benalia*
"My children will rule over all!"
"Shoo, you little worm tails—go away! My corpses aren't your dinner!"
—Ghoulcaller Gisa

The naga of the Sultai Brood made deals with dark forces to keep their power.

Enthusiasm is no match for preparation.
Earth Elementals have the eternal strength of stone and the endurance of mountains. Primordially connected to the land they inhabit, they take a long-term view of things, scorning the impetuous haste of short-lived mortal creatures.

"Monsters dwell in every heart. We only think civilization tames them." ―Euphemia, Nexus watcher
Torching Krosa would be pointless. It grows faster than it burns.


"The best moments are worth reliving."

Despite the reemergence of werewolves and the proliferation of Eldrazi, elk numbers in the Somberwald have remained steady.


The phantom warrior comes from nowhere and returns there just as quickly.
Ojutai sought to rewrite history. Those who disagreed sought the truth elsewhere.



On the volcanic continent of Akoum, bizarre vegetation clusters around gas vents, and jagged mountain peaks rise high into the air.
If only it had three brains, too.
"Once Avacyn returned, I hoped I'd never need these things again. I didn't think I'd be dusting them off to use against angels."
On Naya, ambition and treachery are scarce, hunted nearly to extinction by the awe owed to terrestrial gods.
A spark to light the guttered heart.
Since Imperial custom strictly forbade the Emperor to reveal her name—even to Kaito, her closest childhood friend—she had to suffer him calling her "your emperorness" for much of their shared youth.

"Citizens, do not resist. This is for your safety. Tezzeret bids you to surrender your inventions. Now."
"'Do you know, I always thought Unicorns were fabulous monsters, too? I never saw one alive before!' 'Well, now that we have seen each other,' said the Unicorn, 'if you'll believe in me, I'll believe in you.'" —Lewis Carroll
"Giants and monsters loom on the horizon, and the elves plan to murder our gods!"

"It reflects the purity of Mirrodin-that-was."
—Koth of the Hammer

"Dragons seek war. I bring it to them."
"When the land is angry, so are they."
—Nissa Revane
"Perhaps goblins are good for something after all."
—General Khurzog
Out of sight, into mind.


Forged by a thousand flames.
The massive dominate through might. The tiny survive with guile. Beware the tiny who become massive.
"Dominaria touches us all."
—Molimo, maro-sorcerer
Don't let its appearance frighten you. Let its claws and teeth do that.
"They're not your friends; they despise you. I'm the only one you can count on. Trust me."
Kargan tribal lands rarely have issues with goblin raids. Coincidentally, they also rarely have issues keeping their dragons fed.



"Older specimens are completely encrusted with gems, which serve as both armor and weapons."
—Tolarian research notes

A hero fails, a martyr falls. Time twists and destinies interchange.
The first vine shows the others where to grow.
"The family is a tree, and in times of need, every branch can be a weapon."
—Daghatar the Adamant
"Why should death always have the last word?"
—Llanowar druid

"Have you ever seen a world fall to its knees? Watch, and learn."
—Ob Nixilis

When the Mirrans had fallen, Planeswalkers carried the burden of remembrance.
"The efreet is a striding storm with a voice that crackles like fire."
—Qhattib, Vizier of Amiqat
Cephalids don't police people. They police loyalties.
The price of prophecy is a vacant eye socket.

"Vine-wreathed, he nurtures life among the dead."
—Psemilla, Meletian poet
"I drink of those who are worthy of my palate. The rest I burn."
After a brief but memorable incident at her first performance, she was never heckled again.
One of the many reasons why open-air markets close at dusk.

"How terrible to wander wishing only to escape oneself."
—Taysir
The only sound was the gentle clicking of the Faeries' wings. Then those intruders who were still standing turned and fled. One thing was certain: they didn't think the Scryb were very funny anymore.






Countless generations of Shivan goblins have worked on the Mana Rig, giving them an unparalleled eye for useful relics.
"Only vengeance matters now."
—Barrin
"Faugh!" snorted Tahngarth. "Why would it make a meal of something like you?" Squee looked relieved. "No," he continued, "you'd make a much better toothpick."


When the gods go to war, mortals pay the highest price.
Scarecrows only go so far in sending the message to stay away.

D'Haren stared at the twisted lump of metal that had been a prized artifact. The fight was getting ugly.
To the merchant, it was nothing more than a few missing trinkets. To Tinybones, it was the greatest heist of all time.
"Being an inventor means knowing how to use the tools at hand to make something great—or to bring it down."
—Pia Nalaar

Merfolk tell their young of Dandân, humans of Rag Man. Dal tell tales of the Dauthi, and they are far worse.
Underling Ethu's 263rd report read simply "Yes, my lord. Overwhelmingly, my lord." This marked the end of the Mirran-Phyrexian War.
The undisputed master of the mountains of Shiv.
"The Eye altering alters all."
—William Blake, "The Mental Traveller"

"More armies have been lost in the confusion of the jungle mists than to any battle."
—Jolrael
"The raging waters had swept away trees, bridges, and even houses. My healers had much work to do."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest

All skyships entering or leaving the fairgrounds must pass through the security checkpoint.

Arrows fletched with the feathers of angels seldom miss their mark.
Left without their leader Raksha, the leonin split into two prides: one side supported the regent kha, while the other rebelled in fury.
At first they thought the vault was empty. Then the walls began to glow.

"The Ancestor protects us in ways we can't begin to comprehend."
—Mystic elder

Originally considered the work of Urza, this tablet was created by forgers seeking to imitate Urza's masterpieces.
For his family, Barrin made a funeral pyre of Tolaria.
Its blood is life. Its body is growth.
"It's a difficult task to quarantine a plague that moves with the clouds."
—Esara, healer adept






Webs of illusion unravel in the light of truth.



The time between spotting a leonin shikari and feeling its claws is just time enough to draw your last breath.
Merfolk don't always know what they're looking for, but they're certain once they find it.

Whenever the Llanowar Elves gather the fruits of their forest, they leave one plant of each type untouched, considering that nature's portion.

The winged helms of the Guard are put on for pageants—but taken off for war.
"General?!" Tahngarth roared. "General *nuisance*, maybe."
A symbol of passion in indifferent times.
Once a barbarian army has conquered a region, their shamans summon hellhounds that keep undesirables out and prisoners in.







"Everything the wise woman learned she wrote in a book, and when the pages were black with ink, she took white ink and began again."
—Karn, silver golem



When provoked, a flamekin's inner fire burns far hotter than any giant's forge.
Seeking the company of plants ensures that your wits will go to seed.
"They say nothing lasts forever. I say everything lasts forever, just not in the form you may be accustomed to."
—Vraska

"Everyone who crosses that threshold is our most cherished friend. Everyone who crosses it again is our bitterest enemy."
—Trostani
"The Ancestor Dragon appeared atop the clouds, amid shattering mountains and sundering earth."
—Jiang Yanggu's travelogue

It wasn't the first time the dragon's hoard had attracted a free lunch.


"I found a new toy. Wanna play?"


As the muscle cords of the creature twitched, Hanna saw an unsettling unanimity in the others' rippling flesh. She didn't know what it meant, but she urged Sisay to keep the ship at a safe distance.
When nature calls, *run*.
"A great siege is a banquet to him; a long and terrible battle, the most exquisite delicacy."
—*The Seer's Parables*

"Now, *that's* a fashion statement."
—Devin, Faerie Noble
"Sometimes the best plan is neither fighting nor running."
—Freyalise




Every world is an organism, able to grow new lands. Some just do it faster than others.




The sky takes flight and the earth trembles.

A progenitor of tadpoles and allergies in equal measure.


For Sarkhan Vol, the dragon is the purest expression of life's savage splendor.
"You might believe being dead for centuries has made me more lenient. I think you'll find the opposite is true."


Bones scattered around us joined to form misshapen bodies. We struck at them repeatedly—they fell, but soon formed again, with the same mocking look on their faceless skulls.
"Nature? Fire? Bah! Both are chaotic and difficult to control. Ice is structured, latticed, light as a feather, massive as a glacier. In ice, there is power!"
—Heidar, Rimewind master

"We have inherited the mysteries of the Thran, but few of the answers."
—Jhoira
"Call every able sword to our side. Kjeldor will stand triumphant!"
—King Darien of Kjeldor

"Take what solace you can in the knowledge that you will not be here to witness Zendikar's demise."
—Ob Nixilis







"If we didn't guard our secrets, they wouldn't remain secrets for long."
—Gadwick, the Wizened


The Mul Daya elves reject their Tajuru kin, calling them arrogant tree-binders who think the roots serve the canopy.
When Freyalise spoke the World Spell, the tamanoa rose to bring a new morning to Terisiare.
In the late stages of Tyranid invasion, vast capillary towers funnel biomass to the Hive Ships waiting in orbit.

His mission has become a grim pilgrimage, a tour of the Eldrazi-stricken outposts across Zendikar. But he marches on alone, stubborn as the daily dawn.

"Thrice Xuande's ardent quest led to Nanyang, / Where Sleeping Dragon unveiled Han's partition: . . ."

A golden helix streaked skyward from the Helvault. A thunderous explosion shattered the silver monolith and Avacyn emerged, free from her prison at last.



"There are two ways for me to pass this gate. One involves you remaining conscious."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*


When defeat is near and guidance is scarce, all eyes look in one direction.

"My power is generosity, in a way. I give my survivors an appreciation for their lives."

Unwelcome in Golgari colonies, he found his own dark place from which to represent the Swarm.




All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.



The tiger is always quick to fold.
"'War is no picnic,' my father liked to say. But the ants seemed to disagree."
—General Chanek Valteroth

"A perfect reflection of its world: brutal, fetal, and lacking truth."
—Oracle *en*-Vec
"What say you, my most trusted advisors? . . . Advisors?"
—Edra, merfolk sovereign
Their eardrums may have given out, but the rest of them never will.





Only the hardiest explorers survive to eat the fruit.
Although greatly prized among falconers, the zephyr falcon is capricious and not easily tamed.


A gwyllion's favorite trap is the vanity mirror. A bewitched piece of glass traps the looker's soul and does away with the body.

Her bold movements are anchored in the careful precision of each rope.
"Be careful when handling old magical trinkets. You never know who they've been."
—Augusta, Lorehold dean

Monks from Topa wander all of Bant, encouraging the Unbeholden to find their place in society through honorable combat.




"If you wind up in one of mine, you can be sure as silver it will be your last."
—Grafdigger Wulmer


Build something and the baboons will tear it down. Leave the pieces lying and they will scatter them.
Liliana inspires horror in many and fanatical admiration in a few.
"The Izzet are an equation that turns lunacy into explosions."
—Leonos, Azorius arbiter
Not wind, but the breath of the dead.
Her heart holds the pain of every soldier she's ever healed.
The Skelle raiders boasted that nothing could stop them, certainly not a bit of fog.


As the Thaw met Terisiare, mountains shed their icy skins, crushing homes and hopes alike.

"Survival rule 782: There are *always* more scute bugs."
—Zurdi, goblin shortcutter


"No machinations, no puppet strings, no plots. Just pure, sweeping death."
—Tasigur, the Golden Fang



Each flower identical, every leaf and petal disturbingly exact.

"Our glorious infection has taken hold."
—Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite

"They come because I call. They stay because I listen."
What took months for human hands to carve took just seconds for the dinosaur's tail to ruin.

The helmet reveals no eyes to witness your penance, no mouth to offer absolution.
"The hardest thing is finding the right ingredients."


"Oathbreaker, I cast you out!"


As monsters from the Underdark rampage across the world above, you've delved deep underground to determine what has driven them upward.

"Mandatory lockets enable the tracking of all Senate personnel for improved security and efficiency."
—Dovin Baan



"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim."
—Sisay, captain of the *Weatherlight*
When the last scrap of flesh is scoured away, the Curse of Wandering ends. Then the dead may sleep.




The horde grows with each assault.

As the muscle cords of the creature twitched, Hanna saw an unsettling unanimity in the others' rippling flesh. She didn't know what it meant, but she urged Sisay to keep the ship at a safe distance.

"Carry war to the Dauthi, no matter the way, no matter the world."
—Soltari battle chant
"The secrets of my great-uncle's heirloom lie in the world where it was forged: the grease-stained wastes of Phyrexia."
—Jarsyl, diary
The Cabal required a suitably immense space to house the lucrative fruits of their religious zeal.




"Courage is the only shield I need."

As the Eldrazi spread, no secret that could give Zendikar's defenders an advantage was considered too dangerous to seek.




Thieves love technological innovations almost as much as artificers do.
The merfolk call the sky goddess Emeria. The kor call her Kamsa. The two races agree on little except that she offers many blessings to the faithful.
"We have intel that some guilds have fallen under an invader's influence. Until we're sure, no venture succeeds."
—Lazav


"They groaned, they stirred, they all uprose,/ Nor spake, nor moved their eyes;/ It had been strange, even in a dream,/ To have seen those dead men rise."/ —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"

It hears and answers every orison across Shadowmoor.
"There are some qualities—some incorporate things,/ That have a double life, which thus is made/ A type of twin entity which springs/ From matter and light, evinced in solid and shade." —Edgar Allan Poe, "Silence"





"We're glad to be of service—to be an audience to your failure."
—Maizah Shere, Tazeem lullmage


"I could help you, or I could eat you for lunch. I haven't decided yet."


The only honey it wants is the sweet nectar flowing through your veins.



"Passion, fire my heart."

Pajik was amazed and pleased at his newfound powers. His pet cat Rivin was slightly less enthusiastic.

"My cats have taught me more about the sacred than anything in some old ruin."
The muck claims a hundred living things for each meager treasure it spews forth.


She drank, and in the depths of the Blind Eternities, an ancient eye opened.

"Surely it won't notice if I take—"
—Theria the Sly, last words
After werewolves slaughtered the citizenry of Hollowhenge, other creatures moved in.
It was a big day for the gravediggers at Cliffside Cemetery.


Created to destroy Dominia, Demons can sometimes be bent to a more focused purpose.

"What I want, I take."
—Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran royal mage

"I am confident that all our enterprises can benefit from this little revolution."

"'I have arrived,' bellowed Brawn, and the plane shuddered."
—*Scroll of Beginnings*
Only the sun that beats down upon Arashin's walls could shine more brightly.

It traps an explosion within its stony skin.
"Is it true that the apes wear furs of gold when they marry?"
—Rana, Suq'Ata market fool

"All we know about the Krosan Forest we have learned from those few who made it out alive."
—Elvish refugee


Treasures, trinkets, trash—the relics of the past are brought forth again.
"You were defeated the moment you declared your aggression."
—Gideon Jura
"They left in one piece. I can't speak to how they arrived."
—Rupirk, porter at the Rusted Anchor Inn
"Wrath is no vice when inflicted upon the deserving."

The king of Yavimaya's waters pays constant attention to his subjects . . . and thrives on their adulation.
"Oh, I had a conscience once. But alas, I seem to have forgotten where I put it."
—Chandler
"No one can catch what won't be caught."
—Kakra, sea troll
Beauty is a seed, waiting to blossom under her capable hands.
"I once saw a single barbarian charge a band of twenty nomads. I've seen some crazy ones, too."
—Nomad sentry
While the soldier dreams, the eyes stand watch.
"Hard to imagine," mused Hanna, stroking the petal, "such a lovely flower inspiring such greed."
Animated by geists fused in its oak, it hungers for more life to add to its core.




He ensures not only whether but also when and where the lightning strikes twice.
Greatness, at any cost.

"We're ready for anything!"




"The continual rise of the downtrodden is as inevitable as vines usurping a forest."
—Vraska

Like blinking or breathing, responding to an alarm is an involuntary reflex.



Giant-sized body. Goblin-sized brain.

"Knowing its origins, how could they have thought they could control it?"
—Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi heretic


"The An-Zerrins have served me well, ever since I first killed them."
—Baron Sengir



Inspired by industrious silkworms, its maker crafted it to restore the broken pieces of the world.
Swifter than an angel, crueler than a demon, and relentless as a ghoul.


In troubled times, there are few greater sorrows than a wayward savior.



Mines became common as cities during the days of the artificers.


"Now there's a fellow who knows how to have a good time!"
—Jetmir
Grieve for the soul in death dishonored.
—Shadow Guild saying







Not keen-edged enough for cutting armor, the no-dachi slew by folding its victim rapidly and violently under the weight of its impact.
The Law of Givesies Backsies is respected by every noble pursuer of shiny things.

Fragments of thought refract and multiply, surging in a geyser of dizzying insight.
Harpies are among the most detested creatures in all of Theros... and they thoroughly deserve it.
In front of every great wizard is a doomed apprentice.
The stature of the fighter matters less than the depth of the cut.




Though lesser well-known than its army of soldiers, the Boro Legion's mage-priests are as respected by the innocent as they are hated by the ghosts of the guilty.












"The duel was going badly for me, and Zur thought I was finished. He boasted that he would eat my soul—but all he ate were his words."
—Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran royal mage


Unaware of Lorwyn's diversity, it sees only itself, reflected a thousand times over.


"Hear that thud-clank, thud-clank? We're saved."
—Ani, Urzan soldier
Battles are won in nuance.
"Of course I'm not a spy! The enemy has spies. I am a Scout."
—Ailis Connaut
"Her voice is justice, clear and relentless."
—Akroma, angelic avenger
"There are dark, ancient arts that fascinate even me."
—Sorin Markov

No part goes to waste.

Leaders shape the minds of their allies. It takes a master to shape the minds of enemies.
"My Master is the Beginning and he is the End. He is the Master of Mortals, and the core of our Dead Hearts."
—*The Saga of Khorne*

While the gremlin, beeble, and squirrel infestations wreaked havoc on the park, Roxi was able to spin the numerous rat colonies as a "robust recycling program."
From here, the path to anywhere may be found.

Optimally designed for agility, mobility, and lethality.
"Once great literature—now great litter."
—Jaya Ballard, task mage
"End this. What I seek is far greater."
—Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite

"Only a fool believes they have nothing left to learn."
Enforcing absolute quiet with extreme prejudice since 3285 AR.
"Look at her, once filled with innocence. Death has a way of wringing away such . . . deficiencies."
—Savra



Chimney sweeps, explorers of abandoned buildings, spire climbers . . . goblin spelunkers have found countless niches within Ravnica's metropolis.
"It's gingerbread, like Mother makes. What is there to be afraid of?"



... and when you want to go explore, the number you should have is four.
—Sandra Boynton
In the wisps that night, the once timid boggart saw all the terrible, bloody things he was capable of. And it was glorious.




Beneath the gaze of angels, only the righteous may stand without fear.
"Let's begin this conversation again, and this time you will only listen."
"Let the vampires join us. In this war, we no longer have the luxury of choosing our comrades."
—General Tazri, allied commander

It's hard to shout "Shields up!" with a javelin in your chest.


"The hard part isn't landing in the saddle. The hard part is leaping before you see it."


"If you're not having fun, what's the point of living forever?"
"Defiantly, the young cyclops popped the brushwagg into his mouth. His cheeks suddenly puffed, his eye bulged, and he was forced to agree with his elder."
—Afari, *Tales*


The elf's blade carved deep into the Eldrazi drone's fleshy lattices. Without a sound, the drone lost equilibrium and tumbled from the sky.
"Easy. All ya gotta do is push somebody into it."
—Squee, goblin cabin hand, scouting report
"Let any who doubt the evil of using the ancient devices look at this infernal machine. What manner of fiend would design such a sadistic device?"
—Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi Heretic





Take two steps north into the unsettled future, south into the unquiet past, east into the present day, or west into the great unknown.




Regardless of the century, plane, or species, developing artificers never fail to invent the ornithopter.



"This is why I hate settlements. They lull you into a false sense of security."
—Yon Basrel, Oran-Rief survivalist

Amonkhet's dual suns don't allow for the darkness of night, so bats are most active under the gloom of the frequent sandstorms.
"A sacrifice made in peace is worth a dozen made in panic."
—Orim, Samite healer

The gargoyles were taken from the walls of flooded Kjeldoran cities and brought upland to guard the outposts of New Argive.

"Two muffins are baking in an oven. One muffin says to the other muffin, 'It's getting hot in here, huh?' The other muffin says, 'Aagh! A talking muffin'"
"Nothing against you. It's just that waiting for Consulate clearance was never really my thing."


The more you pay for the lesson, the better you'll remember it.
The seed of a world's evil.
"I'm constantly amazed by the tenacity of living creatures on this plane. Even in the stronghold's white-hot core, life persists."
—Ertai

"He spoke with the tongue of Angels; we fought with the strength of lions."
—Handel, infantry soldier
Everything will find its use in Phyrexia. Eventually.


The cinders believe their flame was stolen by one they call the Extinguisher. All who now wield fire draw their desperate wrath.


"The specimen seems to be broken."
"The tiniest mouse speaks louder to me than all the festival crowds on Tin Street."
"We trust in the scalelords, bringers of justice that none can escape."
—Urdnan, Dromoka warrior



On Evos Isle, the swift and formidable aven enforce the will of the ruling sphinxes.

"My dragonlord's lightning will dance upon your bones!"


Does it reflect the future that once was or the past that can never be?









"A fool's fire is quickly quenched."
—Shaper Kumena
Those who do not submit will be consumed."


Some say the knowledge lost during the Ritual of Rebuking is returned through the well's waters.
A smoldering storm of chilling fire.


The Skoti owe their immortality to the elixir, and the manner of its creation is their most closely guarded secret.
No matter how big and strong you are, the sea is bigger and stronger.
"Why fight the body when you can dominate the mind that rules it?"
—Jace Beleren



His imagination soars from the depths of the sea to the heights of the heavens.

The suns of Mirrodin have shone upon perfection only once.
When the vaults are empty, everyone is rich.



"We've been through a lot together."
"Time to find the melting point of lazotep."
—Ral Zarek
"It is true that we monks hold the key to paradise, but most don't understand that the paradise we guard is the one within."
—Diary of Azusa
"Not all nightmares can be escaped by waking."
—Ashiok


Understanding is a matter of perspective.
"In the soil of leadership sprout the seeds of immortality."
—Kaysa, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order


"'I'll show you how to handle the treefolk!' the giant bragged, and he strode off into the forest. Two days later he returned, his face masked in sap and a nest behind his ear. None dared ask who won."
—Azeworai, "The Treeling"
The vanguard is skilled at waging war alone. The enemy is often defeated before its reinforcements reach the front.
The archangels zealously drove Serra's light into every corner of their new home as if their creator still commanded them.


Hisoka's wizards struggled for years to master the art of redirection that came so naturally to the shamans of Ganzan Pass.
At first, Syr Fenwick scoffed when he saw his opponents for the final match.
"The king would die for the realm. I would not hesitate to do the same for him."


Taj-Nar, throne of Raksha Golden Cub, destined leader of the leonin prides.


He has slain a dozen witches, luring each with a promise of fresh children's bones.
The essence of wind to lift up the weary.
"We have inherited the mysteries of the Thran, but few of the answers."
—Jhoira
"When one of us prospers, the pride prospers."
—Jazal Goldmane


"O to be a dragon . . . of silkworm size or immense . . ."
—Marianne Moore, "O to Be a Dragon"
"One does not question the size or shape of the grains of sand in an hourglass. Nor do I question the temperament of the souls under my guidance."

The aven came to fear the forest's clawing branches, but the watchers quickly renewed their courage.







Duplication is neither thievery nor flattery. It is efficiency.




Enlightenment is not gained by striking the bell or hearing its toll. It's found in the silence that follows.
The caves stretch farther than anyone knows, and the terrible legacy of Yawgmoth lurks in every shadow.
Nothing could break it but the fall.






Sometimes knowledge takes on a life of its own.
Baby dragons can't figure out humans—if they didn't want to be killed, why were they made of meat and treasure?

Trip wire, hooked poles, and sunken pits were commonly used to unhorse riders during the Three Kingdoms period.

"I have seen planes leveled and all life rendered to dust. It brought no pleasure, even to a heart as dark as mine."
—Sorin Markov


It puts the "fur" in "fury."
"WARNING: Do not feed the rhinopus."
—Crossbreed Labs campus advisory
The veneer of rationality peeled from the mage, revealing the spite and rage beneath.
The ancient dragon Imvaernarhro has earned his fiery nickname.

Yet another trash uncommon.


"You can tell something's really valuable by the sound it makes when you slam your staff into it."

"I got it! I got it! I—"
They're not just retrievers, they're carriers.
"May the bounty of Kjeld enrich your days."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran Priest

"All the power of a maro-sorcerer, all the mindless fury of a pitlord. He is a perfect servant.
—Geyadrone Dihada



The best swords are forged with dragonfire.
Some spirits cling to one person, feasting on the growing fear until a final moment of all-consuming terror.


"Knowledge is the universal currency of the Multiverse. It is power. It is freedom. It is possibility itself."

"I'm here for what's mine."
Those with knowledge are wise to listen to those with imagination.
"The angels may have abandoned us, but Ghrin-Danu has not."

It once served a cathar roadwatcher, patrolling the crossways between villages. Its hooves still carry it along the same path.
The boar leads its rider to victory in battle, but it doesn't know how close it is to becoming the victory feast.
The thunder of its hooves beats dreams into despair.
"When darkness closes in around us, my blade will light our path."
It departs through the streets' fissures with a sound like gravel pouring into a pond.
"By hoof, wing, or paw. For the realm!"
—Syr Gwyn, Hero of Ashvale

Half a brain rules the mindless.


"The distraction of your life has ended. Now your service begins."
—Kalitas, thrall of Ulamog


In ancient China, not wearing armor could be a fatal mistake. Guan Yu, Zhou Yu, Sun Ce, and other heros were struck by poison arrows.

"Of all I that I have lost, I miss my mind the most."
"Avacyn has abandoned us! We have nothing left except what we can take!"
The passing of the sai presages the end of the old clan and the ascent of the new.

"It's all in the follow-through."
"Only the most effective tactics stand the test of time."
—Gamelen, Citanul elder

"Zendikar fortifies itself against the Great Threat, making sentries of sky, sea, and stone."
—*The War Diaries*
"Innistrad's ghoulcallers are talented enough, but let me show you what someone with real power can create."
—Liliana Vess
Lush growth spreads like a ferocious blaze across the Otarian hillsides.
His outer calm belies his inner fury.
When you sink a lot of ships, it's easy to find sunken treasure.


Sometimes everyone decides to go for help at the same time.

In her single metasphere are bound the records of every Ætheric transaction since the time of Azor.
Keranos is a fickle god, delivering punishment as readily as prophecy.
"They're herbivores, not prey animals. Go startle one if you want to know the difference."
—Huatli
"Tools and artisans can be destroyed, but the act of creation is inviolate."
—Elspeth Tirel


"In Rath," the priest said, "there is even greater need for prayer."
Snaking remnants of nature directed by a body of thought and progress, the oracles embody all that is Simic.


"We've merged your life essence with that of several creatures at once. You're welcome."
—Speaker Trifon
More than one mage has been driven insane by the sound of the millstone relentlessly grinding away.

Though giants are mortal, they live so long and on such a grand scale that many small folk don't believe they ever truly die.

"Thraben's pleas fall on deaf ears. Ours do not."







"We paid the Simic very well for this capability, but we should quickly recoup our expenses in saved wages."
—Milana, Orzhov prelate

"I'll see you soon, Subjects 25 and 26. I've got a good feeling this time!"

The fight will continue on a new battlefield.





"I have seen the end of times, a future in which all our kind are torn from this world."
—Ushanti, leonin shaman


It is unwise to insult the god of the forge. It is also unwise to stand near anyone else who has insulted him.
All Necrons bear the mark of the Triarch, a brand upon their living-metal skin that binds them to their dynasty.


The blade glows only for Zendikar's chosen.
The suns of Mirrodin have shone upon perfection only once.
"Don't you ever wonder what lies beyond the Hekma? Beyond the reach of the gods? Beyond the horns on the horizon?"
—Samut, initiate of Tah crop
Gaea battles rampant death with abundant life.






Those who displease Oona soon learn the extent of the armies she commands.

"The most elegant solutions are found in nature. You just have to know where to look."

One face, two minds.
"In a war for survival, Dominaria itself became a weapon. The malice is gone, but the danger remains."
—Jhoira
"Imagine a thunderstorm that's also a tactical genius. That's him."
—Dars Gostok, Firefist captain
"It was vast, a great sheet of soaring wings, and equally silent. It caught us unawares and blocked our view of the kithkin stronghold."
—Grensch, merrow cutthroat






The stench of rotting meat lures flies, goblins, and young raptors.
From the seeds of faith, great forests grow.



Smoke clogged the streets and rubble littered the ground, but sunlight shining on the long-lost towers of Elturel was still a beautiful sight.
"All my scars have stories to tell."

The safety of the village depends on the beast thinking with its stomach.


The fights may sometimes be rigged, but the front-row spectators know the wounds are real.
Ogres learn how to smash stuff even before they learn how to walk.
Hiring an experienced wilderness guide isn't cheap, but it costs less than a search party. Or a funeral.



"I do not consider myself a hero. I know only what the Vec teach: justice must always be served and corruption must always be opposed."

The wizard Greensleeves called a Giant Badger to her aid in an battle with the desert mage Karli.
chitty-chitty-BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG!
Ramos touched, and there was life.
Four gray trees and a long, coiling snake. What am I?
—Zhalfirin riddle

"Life as we know it dangles on the brink of extinction. We must show the strength they would steal from us."
—*The Invokers' Tales*
It's raining rats and moggs.
"Let's add just a bit more stopping power."
The fatal flaw in every plan is the assumption that you know more than your enemy.
No matter how large or small, fierce or fleeting, the kithkin have a trap for it.
"You cannot stand against us, but when you fall, you will stand with us!"








Depending on your point of view, the seal represents a proud guardian of the natural cycle or one who has sold her soul to darkness for eternal life.
"What I want, I take."
—Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran Royal Mage


She watches Jetmir's back while her companions watch hers.
"You can almost see it calculating—are we a tasty enough treat to risk the jump?"
—Samila, Murasa Expeditionary House
Death just encourages life the more.
"Glory was gone; Glory was everywhere."
—*Scroll of Beginnings*



It is rumored the Azorius paid an exorbitant sum to ensure its symbol would appear at the top.
Kruphix once dreamed that he traveled beyond the edge of the world to an unfamiliar land. Curious, he picked up a rock, and awoke to find it had followed him from the dream into reality.
The hound sniffed the air and let slip a low growl. General Takeno looked down at the faithful Isamaru and calmed him with a touch. "Alert the guard. The kami are coming."
"I am confident that if anyone actually penetrates our facades, even the most perceptive would still be fundamentally unprepared for the truth of House Dimir."
—Szadek
"Muscle does not make one strong. It only masks the soul's light. True strength lies in purity of purpose."
—Donal Alloway, cenn of Kinscaer
Action: This is an abstract illustration that celebrates green creatures.
The pie was outstanding. The cobbler tasted like shoes.
The youths of Rishada's marketplace are always ready for a quick footrace.


It is said that the wind will blow the world past if you wait long enough.
Once guarded by the Knights of the Reliquary, the tower stands now protected only by its own remoteness, its dusty treasures open to plunder by anyone.
"We've reached the xenos HQ. Transmitting coordinates now."
"The threat of the kami was made worse by the blood rituals of the ogres, who freed terrifying oni to wander Kamigawa unhindered."
—*Observations of the Kami War*

Frog is the sincerest form of flattery.
"What do vermin cling to when all hope is lost?"
—Sorin Markov
"Do not mistake a quiet rampart for one that is unguarded. Some things stir only when they need to."
—Bonovar, siege commander
Ghouls devour the dead and any living creatures unwary enough to fall into their grasp.










The gods are not always kind, but they do have a soft spot for plucky underdogs.
The Sea Gate Expeditionary House was founded after the discovery of the Skyclave over Tazeem. Now its banners fly over every corner of Zendikar.


It drifts through the streets as a breeze of collective sighs, wilting the bustle with dreams and heavy eyelids.


She protects the sacred groves from blight, drought, and the Unbeholden.
"At least this one still has arms and legs. Well, most of its legs."
—Enslow, ghoulcaller of Nephalia





Cities have crumbled under its weight.












"Defeat is no reason for retreat. It is a sign we must redouble our efforts to win this fight."


Some Golgari insects live for centuries—and they never stop growing.
"It has been my honor to improve on the Thran's original design. Perhaps history will remember me in some small part for my work."
—Urza, in his apprenticeship
After encountering them, Squee finally lost his appetite for bugs.
"Deep into that darkness peering, long I stood there wondering, fearing.."
—Edgar Allen Poe, "The Raven"
When he's holding the hammers, everything looks like a nail.
"Keep coming, weaklings! I'm just getting warmed up."
"'Do you know, I always thought Unicorns were fabulous monsters, too? I never saw one alive before!' 'Well, now that we *have* seen each other,' said the Unicorn, 'if you'll believe in me, I'll believe in you.'"
—Lewis Carroll

At Red Cliffs, Kongming and Zhou Yu each wrote his plan for defeating the Wei on the palm of his hand. They laughed as they both revealed the same word, "Fire."


"With precise coordination and enough blood spilled, one can be driven off, even brought down. But two . . . that's a lot of blood."
—Munda, ambush leader
Creations made in madness may contain great power. The path to that power is as labyrinthine as the creator's mind.
"Too much friction on your bearings, your countersinking is inconsistent, and there are lines in your casting. Dispose of it, and begin again."
—Dovin Baan
"Kjeldor must be supreme at any cost."
—Avram Garrisson, Leader of the Knights of Stromgald

His blade carves a path for his people. His words guide them along it.
Fortunately, Hill Giants have large blind spots in which a human can easily hide. Unfortunately, these blind spots are beneath the bottoms of their feet.
Not all deaths are etched with mythic meaning and iconic glory.

You're gonna love this next one.


"And then the shadow took living form, and the shadow devoured the man whole—body, mind, and soul."
—*Tales of the Ozolith*

At the lash of the hive ship's feeder tentacles, the cruiser vented atmosphere, cargo, and crew members into the void.
Urza always put Tocasia's lessons on resource-gathering to effective use.

"If this is the cure, I'd hate to see the disease."
—Orim



"Martyrs are cheaper than mercenaries, and a far better investment."
—General Varchild



The evisceration of one mogg always cheers up the rest.

To Jin-Gitaxias, perfection is not a goal, but a process.
"It was a strange morning. When we awoke, we found our trees transformed. We didn't know whether to water them or polish them."
—Pulan, Bant orchardist








Rumors quickly spread among thieves about a labyrinth without walls and a prize beyond all measures of worth.
Akoum can make any intruder look small.
"The land promises nothing and keeps its promise."
—Oracle *en*-Vec
"Great chains shall free our warriors."
—Oracle *en*-Vec


Dwarves bring poor coal to market, use good coal in their homes, and throw their best coal away.

"Fear rules those weak enough to accept it."
—Greven *il*-Vec
"Calm down everyone; it's nothing we haven't seen before."
—Sisay

"My visions don't show me home. They show me where home is yet to be found."
When it snared a passing cockatrice, its own soul darkly doubled.


"Still alive? No matter. I'll leave you as a warning to others who would oppose me."
—Vish Kal, Blood Arbiter
"Fear of fire is a sensible instinct. If I were you, I'd be terrified."

Healers ultimately acquire the divine gifts of spiritual and physical wholeness. The most devout are also granted the ability to pass physical wholeness on to others.

The world is the body. The mana is the blood. The witch is the surgeon.




"The so-called Barbarians will not respect us for our military might—they will respect us for our honor."
—Lucilde Fiksdotter, Leader of the Order of the White Shield
"And if I'm lying," he began . . .
For the Simic Combine, its sigil serves not as an emblem of honor but as a trademark. Its familiar image on any biological commodity attests to superb craftsmanship, ingenious innovation, and higher cost.
In times of infestation and war, Zendikar favors the blades that strike in unison.


The people of Terisiare had come to live on frozen fields as though on solid ground. Nothing reminded them of the difference more clearly than the rifts brought on by the Thaw.

"We don't choose who comes here. We choose how long they stay."

When they land on you, all you can think about is tearing them off.
"There is power in abandon, but far more in control."
—Warden Hixus, to Kytheon


Brimming with power from their disrupted ritual, the Dawnhart witches lashed out at the werewolf intruders.
A last wisp of paradise in a fallen world.



A sickness stirs in its eyes, a nightmare born in darkened wails.
"Your God-Pharaoh has returned."
Goblin lessons include the 2,071 tips for survival. Frek only remembered 2,070.


"They don't seem scary, but then you're suddenly standing there in your underclothes without a weapon. Then everything looks like a threat."
—Jarro, battle master
The thoughtweft ties a clachan together. Sharing each other's hopes and fears, all the village's citizens spring into action upon the first threat to any one of them.



"This exhibition of Nehra's Threshold Principle must be expropriated and examined for its potential applications in enforcement."
—Confiscation directive
"Hang out our banners on the outward walls; / The cry is still, 'They come'; our castle's strength / Will laugh a siege to scorn."
—William Shakespeare, *Macbeth*
"Only when we journey into the unknown can we find the impossible."
—Cyrul the Wanderer
When defeat is near and guidance is scarce, all eyes look in one direction.
The communal mind produces a savage strategy, yet no one could predict that this vicious crossbreed would unravel the secret of steel.
"Bolters, flamers, plasma—we hit the xenos with everything, and it just kept coming."
—Captain Uriel Ventris
"You'll pay what you owe, with your money or your life."




"Just one aether tiger? What do I look like, a peasant?"
"Walls of a castle are made out of stone,/ Walls of a house out of bricks or of wood./ My walls are made out of magic alone,/ Stronger than any that ever have stood."
—Chrysoberyl Earthsdaughter, *Incantations*
"For something is amiss or out of place/ When mice with wings can wear a human face." —Theodore Roethke, "The Bat"


He was born with the crescent-moon Mark of the Elder Druid, tying his fate to the druids of the Juniper Order.
Uncertainty has its own allure.
They comb the shallows of Lochmere for relics of a bygone era. And if they happen upon a lone traveler, all the better.
"Rage courses in every heart, yearning to betray its rational prison."
—Sarkhan Vol
Some people say that the world is round, and if you travel far enough you'll come to the other side, where everything is upside down.

It slithers through the senses, constricting consciousness and poisoning perceptions.
Leylines branch out from its foundation like roots from a tree. These draw mana from every region and welcome all living things into its verdant chambers.
It harmonizes with the essence of its master.



"It had a mouth like that of a great beast, and gnashed its teeth as it strained to reach us. I am thankful it possessed no means of locomotion." —Vervamon the Elder
Such is the power of Rakdos that even his shadow takes on a cruel life of its own.

The river split into many channels as it flowed to the Halimar Sea. Few travelers could follow the same one twice.




"The most elegant solutions are found in nature. You just have to know where to look."





The oil sloshes against his skull as he nears his destination: the Frogtosser Games and the lighting of the Flaming Boggart.

Between the thunderous footfalls of Naya's behemoths lie moments of perfect quiet.





"Teferi is a problem student. Always late for class. No appreciation for constructive use of time."
—Barrin, progress report




"The third stage of the illness: muscle aches and persistent cough."
—Phyrexian progress notes




A hydra tender's problem isn't having enough defenses but enough pots.
These thick-furred wolves have adapted to Stensia's storms, channeling their energy into bursts of supernatural speed.

Is it at the top of the food chain or the bottom?
"It's a testament to the forests' devastation that giant spiders now make their homes amid Dominaria's barren spires."
—Aznaph, greenseeker

You will scream out your innermost secrets just to make it stop.





"There are so many of them. It seems they've just been waiting for someone to serve."

"Learn not only from the failures of the past, but also from its triumphs."
—Isperia

"You are not alone. You never were."

"Don't you agree that mogg intellects are improved by zombification?"
—Lord Dralnu
Enter those who are starving and sick. You are welcome among the Swarm when the rest of Ravnica rejects you.

The air was filled with the cracks and snaps of flesh hardening as the new sliver joined the battle.
He relishes the devotion of his Skirsdag puppets and their belief that it will earn them immortality.
He has journeyed where none have been before. Now he returns to ensure that none follow.

"By fate or by will, every reign must come to an end."
—Kethis, the Hidden Hand




"I've seen lightning move slower."
—Nomad sentry

The *Weatherlight* can no longer planeshift, but it can traverse Dominaria with ease.
It's not known whether the Thran built the device to forge their wonders or to defend them.
The dead who wander beyond the safety of the city of Naktamun crave only to spread their curse.
All things are connected: light to dark, age to youth, blood to blood.

"Let the flames ignore the sinless."
Water is life. Or perhaps it is just something to wash it down with.
"Down here, things don't stay dead."
—Lavinia



Meletian mages can't claim the title of thaumaturge until they have received a gift or omen from the gods. Ephara likes to give tangible tokens of her favor.
"Look what we fought for. Look what we built together."


"We're on the fortieth floor, with one window, no balcony. No one could possibly get in."
—Minosz, Orzhov chief of security


"Though the letter was many pages long, I could tell all I needed to know from one look at the messenger's face."
—Barrin, master wizard
The largest dunk tank in forty-seven galaxies.

"Until the world unites in vengeful fury and Phage is destroyed, I will not stay my hand."
—Akroma, angelic avenger

Dominaria's most ancient evil.



It is the forest beyond the horizon, the mountain waiting to be climbed, the new land across the endless sea.






"When the Second Sun rests between the horns on the horizon, so begins the Hour of Revelation. Then the Hour of Glory, the Hour of Promise, and finally the Hour of Eternity."
—*The Accounting of Hours*


More than one mage has been driven insane by the sound of the millstone relentlessly grinding away.
Mercadians not wealthy enough to buy a tomb are thrown into a bog called "the Ghoul's Larder."
The bower shuddered. The stillness broke. The scurf shifted, and a being emerged from the flowers and ferns.

"Our emissaries are gifted negotiators."
—Alesha, Who Smiles at Death
Merrow schools rarely form by design. They come together naturally as eager learners surround the wisest teachers.

The ancient magic of the sun elves keeps these lands in an eternal summer.

"Wisdom can be summed up in two rules: Control what you can. Eliminate what you cannot."
—Dromar, the Banisher

"And then the shadow took living form, and the shadow devoured the man whole—body, mind, and soul."
—*Tales of the Ozolith*
All crave the Blessed Sleep. Few receive it.








Standing near a volcano
—Barbarian expression meaning "asking for it"
"A little dark magic won't stop me. The worse the curse, the better the prize."
—Radavi, Joraga relic hunter, last words
"Mammoths may be good to ride on, but they're certainly bad to fall off of!"
—Disa the Restless, journal entry
None can tell how many vessels are tangled up on the sea floor—or how much treasure remains unclaimed.
"True riches are found in the mazes of the mind."
—Tamiyo, the Moon Sage





Fools believe that Kolaghan's brood follows lightning storms. The wise know that it is the other way around.
"Gone today, here tomorrow."
—Ertai, wizard adept
Rath's evincars used hivestones to control the slivers, but the overlay put their power into unwitting hands. Now the stones make not masters, but slaves.
The Tolarian Academy was home to some of the greatest discoveries in Dominaria's history—as well as its greatest tragedies.
Ish Sah, den of the warlord Geth, commander of countless nim.
The erupting flames work as both barrier and weapon.
"No angel bars our ascent. Emeria waits above!"
"Reality has exiled me. I am no longer bound by its laws."
"The ruin of the past is the topsoil of the future."
—Sokar, former Nef-crop initiate
The first khans of the Sultai relied on the magic of the rakshasa to ensure the survival of the clan.

"Like the seas, the Æther is fickle and ever-changing. If we can control one, we can master the other."
—Riptide Project director

What doesn't grow, dies. And what dies grows the tarmogoyf.
"One alone is fearsome; one among many is unstoppable."
—Benalish proverb
"Drill the planet, it's no trouble: Mining granite, making rubble."
—Dwarven drilling song

There is no boat big enough.

The foolish wish for that which they desire. The cunning wish for that which they require.
Wyleth emerged from the crater unscathed with the sun's fury trapped in his hands.

A key that slips through every lock.
If taken, it cuts the hand that clutches it. If given, it heals the hand that holds it.
Ravnica held its breath as the hero of the resistance—their last hope—flew through the sky, his dark sword ready to strike a god.

Iroas and Mogis are as different in appearance as they are in personality.

"Anna and Blaine said the ride was awesome. Yolanda and Zachary aren't back yet."

All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.



As long as the dryads are a part of the forest, the forest is a part of the army.

"This sort of innovation occurs when you set out to improve an electric tea kettle and misplace a decimal."

"Once, the C'tan sought to rule us. Now it is they who serve us, their shards powering our great machines."
—Szarekh, the Silent King
"We lost our homes and our kin. We won't let those rotters take our future as well."
These spirits of the air are winsome and wild, and cannot be truly contained. Only marginally intelligent, they often substitute whimsy for strategy, delighting in mischief and mayhem.
It left behind an echoing emptiness more horrible than the grave.




"I call them 'Poke' and 'Prod.'"
—Chagrach, Rakdos cursemage

"Don't waste my time with trifles. Bring me works of art, and I will make you rich."

Boundaries drawn on maps or marked with stone have no meaning for the Mardu.
He ripped up board after board until his hands were bloody. Still, he could not find whatever it was he sought.




"I can stab you where it hurts, or where you will feel absolutely nothing."
—Illulia of Nighthearth
"I have attuned the staff to your screams so that only I may benefit from your pain."
—Volux, disciple of Nin
Cabal clerics don't heal the sick—they heal the dead.

Kruphix hid the most dire prophecies about humankind where humans would never find them and tritons wouldn't care to read them.
"Our world has not felt her thundering steps in lifetimes, but Marit Lage's presence is still with us."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran Priest





"All is calm. All is well. You know me to be a trusted member of your family, and I would like to discuss the contents of our safe."


"Ours is to honour the martyr, tend the fallen, defend the innocent, and walk always in the light."
—*The Hospitaller's Book of Hours*
"Sheesh! How am I supposed to make a decent living around here?"
—Cabal grave robber
"When you're on watch, no noise is harmless and no shadow can be ignored."
—Olgard of the Skiltfolk
An empire can take centuries to build but mere moments to destroy.
"People would sooner savor sweet lies than chew plain truths."
—Lazav
"The lemures looked harmless, until they descended on my troops. Within moments, only bones remained."
—Lucilde Fiksdotter, Leader of the Order of the White Shield
The carnage of conflicts long past still stains the Otarian soil.
Lightning tethers souls to the world.
—Kor saying
Eyes are unnecessary for seeing the future.
Enter to find wealth, security, and eternal life . . . for just a small price up front.
It rides to a chorus of whispers that are more felt than heard.

"All are not equal—neither in life nor after death. Bontu's favorites will stand highest in eternity."
—Senifet, vizier of Bontu
Under Yavimaya's peaceful facade beat the hearts of many savage beasts.

Though Volrath is long dead, the slivers have become everything he wanted them to be: mindless instruments of destruction and despair.



With each defeat, the hive learns. With each victory, it grows.
"Have you ever held a Boros signet? There's a weight to it that belies its size—a weight of strength and of pride."
—Agrus Kos


"I see the weaknesses you hide even from yourself."







The Mirran partisans created hundreds of patrol sentinels to divert Phyrexian assaults from the Tangle.
"You're too dim to realize it, but you've already lost."
The most holy treasures are kept far from unclean soil.
Life is such a fragile thing.



As Glissa searches for the truth about Memnarch, Bosh searches to unearth the secrets of his past.


In its heart lies the secret of immortality.



"Do you like it, Sister? Its dreadful visage was inspired by your own."
Light poured from every crack as the sleepers awoke from their long stone slumber.
"The power that flows here cannot be denied. But where is the source?"
—Nissa Revane
"Everything in Nature contains all the powers of Nature."
—Ralph Waldo Emerson,
"Compensation"
"To be in the presence of a revoker is to be truly alone."
—Kara Vrist, Neurok agent
In times when freedom seems lost, great souls arise to reclaim it.
Simic's strength comes from its diversity.

For wisdom's sake, it was built high to gaze on all things. For glory's sake, it was built high as a testament of power. For strength's sake, it was built high to repel all attacks.
Some predators can sense fear in their prey, but the lamia is drawn to madness.
Like corpse-worms through a carapace, rotwurms slide through the hollowed bones of the undercity.
Their skeletons can be found all over Skirk Ridge, tangled in each other's horns.

"Far too many of our missing 'dead' seem to be turning up in Varchild's ranks!"
—King Darien of Kjeldor
Never mistake deception for cleverness.







Though the first who raised it in a fit of passion is long dead, the axe still carries memories of bitter scorn.
In times of unrest, the crowd is eager for the comfort of strong convictions.
Invented in Mishra's earlier days, the rack was once his most feared creation.
The forlorn cries of the dead combine to make its laugh.
To be king, Numsgil did in Blog, who did in Unkful, who did in Viddle, who did in Loll, who did in Alrok. . . .
"Sisora wore this, who defeated the tyrant of Azcanta, and before her Natena of Vuhana's band. May it bring you their strength."

There are rules, and then there are gods.

Legends say a djinn gave the goblins a gift they could never hope to master.


Centuries of temporal strife had stripped Dominaria of its natural defenses, but nature fought back with armies constructed of little more than grime and sunlight.

"Forgive the theft. Punish the deception."
—Alcarus, Selesnya archer

Skrab tried to warn his fellow goblins that the hammer was bait for a trap, but they stopped listening at "hammer."


Cyclical and spiral patterns are the specialty of the Gyre Clade, which seeks to revitalize the cycles of nature.





"Fair fight? How could it be a fair fight? We're Akroans. They're not."
Its silk is highly prized, but then again, so is your life.

"Hold your position! Leave doubt for the dying!"
—Tahngarth of the *Weatherlight*
Many veterans of the Ovalchase racetrack turned their talents to the renegade cause.
The Frost Giants have been out in the cold a long, long time, but they have their rage to keep them warm.




The same crystals that root deep enough to pierce Savai's catacombs also soar high enough to change its weather.

Enter those with the vision to create and the daring to release their creations.
"I have seen entire civilizations rise and fall. You mortals are but dust to me."
—Sorin Markov
"Dragonfire forged me a warrior."
—Rashida Scalebane

"The victim bears the marks of the 'Ktozok Impaler'. . . but he was executed years ago!"
—Gorev Hadszak, Wojek investigator


Setting foot in their muck is an open invitation.
Rishada is the gateway to free trade—but the key will cost you.

"Double or nothing."

"Fly us higher, out of its storm."
—Sisay, Captain of the *Weatherlight*
It gathers against the coming storm.
A stitcher looks at their creation and sees the result of years of study and hours of toil. A devil sees a new plaything.



"Dear brother, I couldn't forget you if I tried, and I *have* tried."

Its eye the glaring sun, its cry the keening wind.



"Try to pretend like you understand what's important."
"Vanya Falkenrath's paintings are astonishing. How does she manage to achieve such rich crimson hues?"
—Stefan, art critic
"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim."
—Sisay, captain of the *Weatherlight*
"Could there be a fouler act? No doubt the baron knows of one."
—Autumn Willow
A single glimpse was enough to compel Captain Velkarne to lay down his sword and take up the poet's quill.

Quenton barely had a second to admire his exquisite handsomeness before reality collapsed around him.
"Let all we have buried be buried forever."
—Seton, centaur druid
"All kami are our enemies now, A very tough lesson to learn. But it's one that's taken quickly, When you feel what it's like to burn!"
—Ku-Ku, akki poet
Its wings disturb more than air.



"The Guard will forever stand ready. For them, death is merely an inconvenience, not an ending."
—Chaeska, Keeper of Tresserhorn

These spirits of the air are winsome and wild and cannot be truly contained. Only marginally intelligent, they often substitute whimsy for strategy, delighting in mischief and mayhem.
Ravnica's laws protect not its citizens but its industry. Aging equipment is destroyed rather than restored, to bring more money into the factories' coffers.

"Don't look at it! Maybe it'll go away!"
—Ib Halfheart, goblin tactician

Fire never dies alone.






In a single unending moment, a hundred lifetimes of knowledge coursed through his unraveling mind.
"The clues have begun to reveal a truth I hesitate to accept."
There's no greater honor than joining your chosen guild, and no greater shame than failing it.
The most genteel facades hide the most abominable desires.
"The drawing of maps is fruitless in the west near the ice walls; the very earth is formless."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry

"Scholars seek to understand the way the world is. I wish to shape the world into what it should be."

"Nothing is more sacred than the gift of blood. Blessed are the vein that empties and the heart that is renewed."

"Volrath is a harsh master. My reflection is a constant reminder of that."
—Greven *il*-Vec
While it's true most Dragons are cruel, the Shivan Dragon seems to take particular glee in the misery of others, often tormenting its victims much like a cat plays with a mouse before delivering the final blow.

When the body turns, the mind soon follows.
"You studied hard. How delicious!"

They are the masters of your mind.

Its blood is life. Its body is growth.
In the treetops, unseen by many, lurks chittering, skittering death.
"Daughter, it is now your turn to hunt the Tiger, and make a blanket of its fur."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
Persecuted alchemists fled deep into Kessig's wilds, seeking solitude to continue their ghoulish craft.


There were no tombstones in orochi territory. Slain warriors were buried with a tree sapling, so they would become a part of the forest after death.
2004 Vintage Championship Winner

She raised him from an orphaned pup and gave him a life of love. With his last act, he thanked her.
Once it consecrated the dead. Now it desecrates them.

It seeks those with untamed spirits and offers wild strength.
The Cho-Arrim didn't rely only on a secret location to protect their Fountain.
"I am who I pretend to be."

"If you would taste the wisdom of the oni, be prepared to salt it with your blood."
—Kiku, Night's Flower
All who hear his inspiring words are filled with hope and pride.
"It's hard to hurt anyone when you're as transparent as your motives."
—Ertai, wizard adept

"It puts an end to what ails you."
—Jeorg, Valla battlemaster


"Crovax knows we're coming now," said a grinning Sisay. "I just sent the *Predator* crashing into his stronghold."




The question isn't whether slivers will adapt to a world's perils but whether the world's perils will adapt to slivers.

"Well, at least all of that arm-waving and arcane babbling you did was impressive."

"I seen lots o' fights. To win ya gotta bash hard and not get bashed back."
—Goblin grunt

She follows the old tributaries built when merrows still shaped the tides.
"The blazekite is a simple concept, really—just a vehicular application of dragscoop ionics and electropropulsion magnetronics."
—Juzba, Izzet tinker

"Some images are so powerful that one glance burns them into your mind forever. Come, let us gaze on nothingness."
—Szadek



It died with the forest, yet both linger on in twisted form.

"Don't fear the darkness. Fear what it hides."
—Remin, venerable monk

Only a focused mind can survive it.
"I do not lead. They do not follow. We walk together."
"I told you this one would be a handful."



Better scarves than scars.


Only the sun that beats down upon Arashin's walls could shine more brightly.

"The currents are strange today, and the fish are fearful. Something's stirring in the depths."
—Rathstaf, Kannah fisherman


"I have a hunch we'll be seeing that one again soon."
—Ambassador Laquatus



Spirits disturbed by ghoulcallers become geists driven by restless anger.
Those who dismiss the cylix as an ordinary wooden bowl are blind to the true measure of its worth.
"I designed the Astrotorium's jetpacks to be lightweight and inexpensive. Nobody mentioned reliable."
—Truss, chief engineer


Beauty appears in strange places for those with eyes to see it.



"I am an instrument of the church wielded against Avacyn's enemies."
Fear the Knight leaping from the water into the air, weapon ready.
Don't try to outrun one of Dominaria's grizzlies; it'll catch you, knock you down, and eat you. Of course, you could run up a tree. In that case you'll get a nice view before it knocks the tree down and eats you.

"Garb is for common folk. I prefer to wear insight and zeal, ambition and flame."

The Archaeovist of the Solemnace Galleries will not rest until every treasure in the galaxy is safely within his clutches.
The course of the falling star always ends in ruin.



"The hazerider danced in the thunderstorm and sang to its music."
—Afari, *Tales*
While elder vampires select their meals with care, the newly sired frenzy at the first whiff.



"Some have said there is no subtlety to destruction. You know what? They're dead."
—Jaya Ballard, task mage

Death in form and function.
"It's a fine way to travel, if you don't mind the smell."
The class learned little that day.
"Don't worry. I'm not going to deprive you of all your secrets. Just your most precious one."
—Liliana Vess


The Summer Nexus is a holy grove in Setessa where the starfields of Nyx glitter in the shadows.


Its wings shimmer with dreams absorbed from its enemies.


Driven by an insatiable hunger, gremlins never cease feeding. They can destroy a lifetime of work in just a few moments.
"No matter how busy my schedule gets, I always try to take time for that personal touch."
—Queen Marchesa


"What do you have that I cannot obtain?"
—Mairsil, the Pretender
"Hallowed be this assemblage of various stuff!"
"Oi oi oi, me gotta hurt in 'ere, Oi oi oi, me smell a ting is near, Gonna bosh 'n gonna nosh 'n da hurt'll disappear." —Traditional

"All we know about the Krosan Forest we have learned from those few who made it out alive."
—Elvish refugee

"I'd strip away the world to see what's under it, but I'd never just leave it to these Phyrexian parasites and their false god."
—Urborg witch
Revenge is a path inevitably walked alone.
In the spirit of inquiry, Tibalt applied a battery of agony spells. They yielded nothing on the vampire's whereabouts, but the screams were reward enough.
"Do try to pull your weight, Geralf. I feel like I'm doing everything."
—Ghoulcaller Gisa
"The best lessons are not the ones I teach. They are the ones the pupils realize for themselves."
The chant was interrupted, the components cooked, and Zok worried that it was his brain he smelled smoking.
Toren had stepped on a lot of bugs during his life, so he couldn't help feeling embarrassed when a bug stepped on him.
On its way to the cave, the armadillo brushed by a sapling. It awoke to find a full-grown tree blocking its path.
"All my spells smell like burnt hair lately."
—Jaya Ballard, task mage






It is an expert at culling individuals who stray too far from the herd.
Other birds collect twigs for their nests. Magpies steal jewels for theirs.
"For us, a rope represents the ties that bind the kor. For you, it's more literal."




For the Gruul, bone-crushing rage is the first priority. Accuracy comes in a distant ninetieth.

The ultimate answer to intrigue and subtlety.

"I think it's trying to tell us that the forest is angry."
—Vivien Reid
Lightning tethers souls to the world.
—Kor saying

The pattern of life can be studied like a book, if you know how to read it.



The elves had devised countless strategies to combat Memnarch's war machines, but they had no idea what to do when one was *thrown* at them.
"Ihsan, the weak. Ihsan, the fallen. Ihsan, the betrayer. He has brought shame to the Serra Paladins where none existed before. May his suffering equal his betrayal."
—Baris, Serra Inquisitor
"The only constant in life is the unknown."
Open hostilities are strictly forbidden at the Inventors' Fair, but "accidents" still happen.


"The wind in one's hair, the sun on one's back, the joy of open skies . . . the next generation of kor must know this kind of peace."




Even one whose ears were closely tuned to the sounds of Havenwood could miss hearing a Scout move past.
"Before the first stone was laid or the first elf-child born, the power of the nephilim was gathering. Let that power be spread by my hands."
Bears are a delicacy for the Atarka. The few that remain are the toughest of their species.




Phenax offers the hope of life, while Pharika grants the solace of death. Between them stands Erebos, who promises nothing but eternity.



The murdered inhabitants of Hollowhenge impart to the living the terror they felt in death.

Elves know where to harvest the best of the forest, for they planted it themselves.


"What is crueler? To let a wound of the heart fester, or to simply cut it out?"
—Crovax


"In these halls there is no pass or fail. Your true test comes with the first full moon."
There is no glory to be gained in the kingdom of the dead.
—Vec tomb inscription

Their arrows are tipped with basilisk eyes and fletched with cockatrice feathers.

"My past holds only pain and loss. I will conquer it by creating the perfect future."
—Ixidor, reality sculptor
"Her voice is justice, clear and relentless."
—Akroma, angelic avenger
Those who bring nothing to the temple take nothing away.
"Serra, like Feroz, is long since dead. But remember, Daria: her spirit shall survive so long as the Homelands do."
—Taysir
The ancient green dragon Claugiyliamatar is often seen with a mangled corpse dangling from her mouth.
Simic initiates begin their training as experimental subjects. Failures are flushed to the undersewers.
Lurking below the current, she thirsts until others come to drink.

Liliana learned the secrets she sought, but at a price that was etched on her fate.
The capo of caps, the hitman of hats, the don of donning fashionable headwear.


"The very earth seemed alive and made a sound like the writhing of the damned."
—Lucilde Fiksdotter, Leader of the Order of the White Shield

"I did not think I would understand the cold filigree creatures of this world, but they too are governed by the laws of nature."
—Nissa Revane
After a hundred failed experiments, Urza was stunned to find that common silver passed through the portal undamaged. He immediately designed a golem made of the metal.


Jund feasts on the unprepared.


"Tresserhorn is ours now. Dredge the lake and bring me all the bones you find. We'll build you a new army, the likes of which Terisiare has never seen."
—Heidar, Rimewind master, to Haakon











Gront realized that his brilliant plan of being faster than Kork might still not be enough.
"I admire their courage as much as I despise their savagery."
—Syr Carah, the Bold

"I see a great victory and rivers of blood. And . . . hmm, looks like a spleen."
—Grishnak, goblin soothsayer
It harmonizes with the essence of its master.
"What you call decay, I call ripening. You'll gain no sustenance from this harvest."
—Kaervek





"I will not sleep until Orazca is ours once more."
To gaze under its hood is to invite death.

For the first time in his life, Grakk felt a little warm and fuzzy inside.



Rath's evincars used hivestones to control the slivers, but the overlay put their power into unwitting hands. Now the stones make not masters, but slaves.


Strength may win the fight, but style wins the crowd.



"Vulshok flail, Viridian shield, loxodon blade . . . Tazzir, bring the Moriok hook and assemble the rookies."
—Vy Covalt, Neurok agent

The murk of the Wanderbrine concealed unseemly rituals designed to bring out the worst in merrowkind.



The void is without substance but cuts like steel.
"Help! I'm not a zombie! Let me out!"
Take two steps north into the unsettled future, south into the unquiet past, east into the present day, or west into the great unknown.

"Their only dreams are of full stomachs."
—Kleon the Iron-Booted

"Above the waves you may be mighty indeed, but down here you belong to me."
"Blood fluting needs to be deeper.
Additional hooks needed for nerve
rigging. Surface stippling could be coarser.
—Ashnod, design notes

"I've seen a larger Erne knock a Giant to the ground and stay airborne. They move not with the wind, but as the wind."
—Arna Kennerüd, Skyknight


"From the damned I make my garden."
—Jorshu of Clan Nel Toth
Discipline to persevere, insight to discover.

"Will not the mountains quake and hills melt at the coming of the darkness? Share this vision with your enemies, Lim-Dûl, and they shall wither."
—Leshrac, Walker of Night
Battle doesn't need a purpose; the battle is its own purpose. You don't ask why a plague spreads or a field burns. Don't ask why I fight.
"They are fighters as fine as any Knight they carry."
—Arna Kennerüd, Skycaptain
Hope races on sunlit hooves.


Phyrexians research with the grace of surgeons and the finesse of butchers.
The rod is a relic from ancient times . . . cruel, vicious, mean-spirited times.
"One emitted a strange series of buzzing clicks and guttural commands, then clawed arms emerged from all of them. Is there no limit to their adaptations?"
—Hastric, Thunian scout

"Join me, and take the world for yourself!"


"We fight not for Avacyn, but for her ideals; not for the church, but for its people."
—Thalia, Guardian of Thraben

"Life gives way to death, and death to new life. Nature feeds upon her own decay."
—Ezrith, druid of the Dark Hours
"And the unclean spirits went out, and entered the swine: and the herd ran violently . . . ."
—*The Bible*, Mark 5:13
His marvels of artifice pale in comparison to the developing machinery of his mind.
Attending a satyr revel requires a high tolerance for pain.

"Only the most sophisticated inventions can survive nature's unsophisticated motivations."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator


"Somehow it warps the Æther. It brings a strange weight, a blockade in the flow of spellcraft."
—Noyan Dar, Tazeem lullmage
"I have a *great* idea!"

Bhaal's mortal children carried within them a darkness that, left unchecked, would devour them all.



WE SHALL MELT THEM IN FIRE.




The Great Furnace's blessing is a spectacular sight, but the best view comes at a high cost.

"Tread carefully! The last time I walked this path, half the snowdrifts were, in fact, sleeping trolls. I've never run so fast in my life!"
—Iskene, Kannah storyteller
"Nature is the ultimate mindless destroyer, capable of power and ferocity no army can match, and the Gruul follow its example."
—Trigori, Azorius senator



Spells of madness often require a sacrifice of sanity.
Only in Ravnica do the wolves watch the flock.

"I see someone tried to stop you, my pet. How delightful."
—Ghoulcaller Gisa

"AIIIEEEE!"
—Ib Halfheart, goblin tactician

At first, vedalken observers thought blinkmoths naturally avoided certain places. Then they realized those places were frogmite feeding grounds.

Travelers are advised to bring extra swords, preferably shiny ones.


"Powders and potions are nothing compared to faith."
—Baris, Serra Inquisitor
Arena beasts are bred for flashiness and foul temper. An extra head addresses both requirements.
Its collapse is like the lashing out of a long-dead civilization that resents being forgotten.

Its diet consists of fruits, plants, small woodland animals, large woodland animals, woodlands, fruit groves, fruit farmers, and small cities.





The last reliable landmark in Tazeem just walked away.

Whenever the Llanowar Elves gather the fruits of their forest, they leave one plant of each type untouched, considering that nature's portion.


The oracles of Meletis foresaw neither its rise from the depths nor the destruction it would leave in its wake.
In all its forms, the forest is the elves' best protector.
There may exist powers even greater than Phyrexia.


Volrath leaves no stone untrained.
"It's a tool for aiding my other tools," explained Urza. "Now they'll work in harmony."






They'll chew through armor, flesh, and bone. They'll even chew through each other if they're hungry enough.


At full moon, the river seeps over its banks and crawls through the woods like a blanket of serpents.
"Angels are simply extensions of truth upon the fabric of life—and there is far more dark than light."
—Baron Sengir
"Only the decadent think magic should be pristine and without cost."





A wolf without a pack is either a survivor or a brute.
Stand in the way of truth at your peril.
"My favorite curses are those that manifest slowly, blackening the soul in ways the victim cannot hope to understand."
—Erissa, bog witch
It's bad luck to step on one, but worse luck to have one step on you.

Burning something is easy. Choosing a target can be more difficult.


In the Brazen Coalition, the wheels of business are greased with plunder.


"For the lost and forgotten, I will keep watch."
An assassin is a king's most trusted courier, ensuring his messages are heard by even the most unwilling recipients.



The larger the crowd, the harder it is for them to run away.
"Aye, ships go missing in the Stormwreck Sea all the time. That's why we don't call it the Calmsafe Current."
—Captain Lannery Storm









Vampires call the gift of flight "exultation." For their enemies, it brings only sorrow.
With the Heart of Yavimaya aiding him, Multani didn't even strain at the load.

If you survive a slinger attack, the slinger wished you to live.

It's in the nature of fire to grow.
There were those who saw the death of the gods and the city's collapse as a final test of worth. Some believed it meant the God-Pharaoh had been killed. Only a few realized they had been deceived.
"Your superstitions and mumblings are useless chaff before my righteousness."



For the first time in many years, Elspeth asked for help.
In nature, not a single bone or scrap of flesh goes to waste.


Oona's song is like a twisted dinner chime. All the faeries return home, but it is Oona who feasts—on the stolen dreams and rumors they serve her.
"When I battled Ojutai, I realized my learning had only begun."
—Shu Yun, the Silent Tempest



The traditional kings of the jungle command a healthy respect in other climates as well. Relying mainly on their stealth and speed, Savannah Lions can take a victim by surprise, even in the endless flat plains of their homeland.



Starke knew the voice was Takara's, but the venom was Volrath's.
Long ago, the priests would wave the gohei to call down the gods. Now it lies forgotten, but the spirits still feel its pull.

For goblins, quantity is quality.


"The day is mine! I sent three such creatures against my foe, then watched as my magefire popped her soldiers like overripe spleenfruits."
—Dobruk the Unstable, pyromancer



"Cowards die many times before their deaths; The valiant never taste of death but once."
—William Shakespeare, *Julius Caesar*
"These guards are the most disciplined military unit in the city. They couldn't fight their way out of a broom closet, but they've got discipline."
—Gerrard, to Sisay
In a rare display of ingenuity, the Orcs invented an incredibly destructive weapon. Most Orcish artillerists are those who dared criticize its effectiveness.
"They aren't the brightest or the quickest of giants. For that matter, the same holds true if you compare them to rocks."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry






The sunlight falls pristine on the temple at Epityr, softened by the remembered shadows of angelic saviors' wings.

Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.



Those who survive the test bear a mark of power anyone can recognize.
"Ashes can't be embalmed."
—Neheb, initiate of Ahn crop

"There shall be a vast shout and then a vaster silence."
—Oracle *en*-Vec
Those who most feel guilt don't need to, while those who most need to feel guilt never do.
—Order proverb
What goes up, must come down.

"By the law of Avacyn, the following thoughts, words, and deeds are henceforth disallowed."

Feed it steel. Feed it gold. Feed it bone. In the belly of the furnace, the flames know no difference.

"A relic donation is suggested."
"The suggestion is mandatory."
—Temple signs


"Show me what Norn's sycophants are hiding under all that pretty porcelain."
—Sheoldred


Gold dragons are the greatest of the metallic dragons in size, power, and wisdom, and often take it upon themselves to safeguard mortal communities from evils that might threaten them.

To gain audience with the hegemon, one must bring a riddle she has not heard.





"Thanks to my father, I know how to fight. He also showed me why I must."
"I know what you're thinking," Jace whispered in the mage's mind. "It's not going to work."

"Except our own thoughts, there is nothing absolutely in our power."
—Rene Descartes, *Discourse on Method*




"Don't laugh. It works."
Because the elves are so in touch with Mirrodin's nature, they understand best how to dismantle it.



「複雑な魔術と優れた戦術をもって決闘する魔道士もいる。一方で、とにかく怒りに任せるだけの魔道士もいる。」
—-フェラドルンの魔術師の秘密
"No power is too great to be undone."
—Karametra, god of harvests

"Your deed cannot be undone. You, however, can be."
—Agosto, Azorius imperator
"If we fight as one, nothing can stand in our way!"





"If a seedling can push through solid stone, there's no limit to what I could do."

He has "friends" in places both high and low, and all seem to owe him favors.


Once a griffin sentinel adopts a territory as its own, only death can force it to betray its post.



The sparkmage shrieked, calling on the rage of the storms of his youth. To his surprise, the sky responded with a fierce energy he'd never thought to see again.

The heavier the load, the harder it works.

"You've begun to understand the hedrons' true purpose," said Ugin. "The Eldrazi can be imprisoned."
"And how did that work out last time?" asked Jace.






Obscura initiates are required to bring a gift of information. They are judged on both how useful it is and how hard it was to obtain.



Soldiers often blocked off the steep mountain passes to ambush enemy troops in western and central China.


"All men have their appointed time; that's something no horse can change."
—Liu Bei, after being told that the Dilu brings its master ill fortune

A harpy's hoard is a filthy, bloodstained pile of trinkets and corpses.

Zombies mourn for the living and celebrate those who will soon be given the gift of death.

During the collision of the shards, entire ways of life disappeared without a trace.
Cowardice is a term invented by those with no cunning.


For a dozen years the Cage had held Lord Ith, but as the Pretender Mairsil's power weakened, so did the bars.

When sorely wounded or tired, Urza would often retreat to the workshops of his apprentices. They were greatly amazed at how much better he looked each time he took a sip of water.
Action: Using the reference as inspiration, we'd like you to design a soldier who is a similar mix of flesh and etherium (a magical metal found only on Esper).


Some angels protect the meek and innocent. Others seek out and smite evil wherever it lurks.
Transformed at his own wedding, he promptly ate the banquet, the gifts, and the guests.
Die beneath a tree, wake up a part of it.
Measure once, cut twice.

"It fell silently from the sky and broke the surface without a ripple. Was it even here at all?"
—Fisherman's journal
"We leonin have come to rule the plains by taking to the skies."
—Raksha Golden Cub




The best engineers recognize when a problem has already been solved.
No honor. No glory. No leftovers.




Ravnica's safest strongholds are often neither.

"Only the lion knows more stories than I do."
—Chulane, Teller of Tales





The Keldons used the toxic vents in the cracked earth to bolster their home's defenses.
He killed out of hate, so now only hate sustains him. He sought immortality, so the gods gave it to him.
She's always willing to lend a hand. It just won't be her own.
"Fall back! You are no match for this."
—Samut



Most goblins get their turn firing the catapult, but few achieve the coveted title of Ammunition Holder.
"Healing is a matter of time, but it is sometimes also a matter of opportunity."
—D'Avenant proverb
It rarely moves, standing stock still in its clearing. When it does stir, ravens stop their cawing and crickets their chirping. All of nature watches in awed silence.


"The bane of countless shattered weapons, each a failure to slay her."
—Daghatar the Adamant
With the cycles of day and night unspooled, the twisted sway of the moon only grew. And grew.
"Any ship that sails on these mean seas for long is bound to pick up a ghost or two."
—Admiral Beckett Brass



Even the trivial can inspire.
"We protect our homelands. Why should they not protect us?"

"Bottled life. Not as tasty as I'm used to, rather stale, but it has the same effect."
—Baron Sengir

The Law of Givesies Backsies is respected by every noble pursuer of shiny things.


"The angels may have abandoned us, but Ghrin-Danu has not."

"In its gaze I saw no mercy, no recognition that I was worthy to exist."
—Kara Vrist, Neurok agent





"Those without beauty are Lorwyn's greatest tumor. The winnowers have an unpleasant duty, but a necessary one."
—Eidren, perfect of Lys Alana
"Only the deathless can truly comprehend the burden of unfailing loyalty."
—Vargard Obyron of the Sautekh Dynasty

Slain orochi warriors were buried with a tree sapling so they would become a part of the forest after death.
He rides in agitated circles, snapping orders at servants who've long since found their peace.
Unaware of Lorwyn's diversity, it sees only itself, reflected a thousand times over.
Marhault follows a strict philosophy, never letting emotions cloud his thoughts. No chance observer could imagine the rage in his heart.
Lukka's bond provided not only friendship, but also the most powerful weapon in his arsenal.

Spirit is the sword and experience the sharpening stone.
—Arabian proverb
"Let the song of Selesnya be heard above the rhythm of our thundering hordes!"
"The night stalkers are such a minor power in Urborg. Their sad eagerness to elevate themselves makes them willing tools in the plundering of little Femeref."
—Kaervek
The lamps on Wyndmoor Street snuff themselves at midnight and refuse to relight, afraid to illuminate what lies in the darkness.
"The second stage of the illness: high fever and severe infectiousness."
—Phyrexian progress notes


Living below a flowstone foundry produces a disproportionate number of fire mages among the il.




None know if this Giant is the result of aberrant magics, Siamese twins, or a mentalist's schizophrenia.

They charge into battle and out for their morning walk with the same exuberance.



"What good is your blade without your breath?"
—Greht, Gathan warlord
The swamps go silent at its approach, but it still hears the heartbeat of the prey within.

It began as a flavor on the tongue, like a bloody morsel of roast boar—but soon the power was a conflagration in her veins.
He marks his territory with fire and wrath, etching the mountainside with his charring breath.




Nature bends to the witches' call.
The wounded see the glow of its vials long before they see its wings diving out of the clouds.
Infinite possibilities contained in a finite space.
"At the Reapportionment, Eagle begged to be human. The Ancestor granted half that prayer."
—Nomad myth
A step in one direction is two steps away from another.
"The absence of binocular vision imposes certain challenges for a flying creature, which are overcome via echolocation."
—Simic research notes
"Avacyn has abandoned us! We have nothing left except what we can take!"

"I'll take that. You won't need it when the revolution comes."

Its windpipe is only the first to amplify its maddening laughter.
He endured the white-hot blaze of the Circle and the sweltering heat of the Irencrag, and he emerged victorious.
"Let your heartbeat be the thunder in the valley. Let your swords be the lightning on the peaks."
—Lothar Lovisason, Balduvian chieftain


The Cicatrix Maledictum split the galaxy asunder. The raw stuff of Chaos flooded into realspace, transforming whole planets in moments.
"As Horus once besieged the Sol System, we shall bring the rotting Imperium to its knees."
—Abaddon the Despoiler


The line between victory and defeat can be as slim as a razor's edge.
Farmers cut the trees and buried their dead. The dead rose up and killed the farmers. The trees grew back and strangled the dead.





Squee: "What's that?" Ertai: "It's a magical book." Squee: "Am I smart enough ta use it?" Ertai: "You could say that."
Occasionally a member of the Institute of Arcane Study acquires a taste for worldly pleasures. Seldom do they have trouble finding employment.
It powers the dreams of Ghirapur.
"There's a secret at the heart of this world, and I will unlock it."
"It's difficult to heal a rift after it begins wandering about on its own."
—Teferi
"Ours is the true and righteous path. You will bow before our might."

Fear is as effective a weapon as the blade.
"Cry out for your comrades so that they may join you in misery."
It manifests at wizard academies to siphon inspiration from young prodigies.


"Trust me. The reward's not worth it."
'Twas in the bogs of Cannelbrae My mate did meet an early grave 'Twas nothing left for us to save In the peat-filled bogs of Cannelbrae.
"My skills are wasted here."
—Juruk, Kalonian tracker

For the first time in his life, Grakk felt a little warm and fuzzy inside.

"If it wasn't a blackened, stinking, melted abomination before, it certainly is now."
—Koth of the Hammer
"Your death will be a balm, your passing a welcome revision, and all will sigh with peace to know of your demise."




Loyal to a fault, it anticipates its master's every need.
Unpredictable as the sea itself, Water Elementals shift without warning from tranquility to tempest. Capricious and fickle, they flow restlessly from one shape to another, expressing their moods with their physical forms.

In a culture of beauty, the most beautiful are worshipped as gods.

Smik learned the elvish dance quickly enough. The most difficult, yet most important step was to stay out of Nath's sight until called to perform.

Tainted by a thousand fears.

Visit the dead, and they may return the favor.
"We thought Zendikar's rage was kindled by its explorers and plunderers. But the world had sensed the stirrings of the Eldrazi."
—*The Invokers' Tales*

Some say Banshees are the hounds of Death, baying to herd their prey into the arms of their master.



Assault and battery included.
The elfhames are the closest thing to "civilization" the elves allow themselves.


One spiny tree with bitter fruit grows in the realm of Tizerus, outside the palace of Erebos.

A simple fire spell that grows in intensity along with its caster.
"The second stage of the illness: high fever and severe infectiousness."
—Phyrexian progress notes


"Territorial. Scary. No further notes."
—Volo's field notes

It's hard to be humble when the whole world is bite-size.

As the creatures of the night closed in on humanity, Innistrad's primeval forces stirred, as though waking to watch the slaughter.

"There are dark, ancient arts that fascinate even me."
—Sorin Markov


Whoever wins, the neighborhood loses.
Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti Djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.

"There is a great difference between pain and injury."
—Cho-Manno

Are you sure you can afford such a luxury?


On Naya, ambition and treachery are scarce, hunted nearly to extinction by the awe owed to terrestrial gods.

"The jungle was here before any city. It will be here after the last city falls."

"They make it clear we are nothing to them."
—Lavinia
"We're now to dispense aid to any Mirran we see battling anything . . . 'strange.' Regent's orders."
—Ranya, skyhunter captain
"Too many of us have died in the explosions that wrack these hills."
—Klazina Jansdotter, leader of the Order of the Sacred Torch
"Dissent? Your gods can't even begin to comprehend the dissent that's about to happen here!"
—Chandra Nalaar

It's important to face your inner demons . . . unless they're the kind of demons that can kill you.
An Atarka dragon's exhale cooks what its inhale consumes.







"It's easy to anticipate Captain Storm's orders: take the more dangerous route."


Zimone's brilliance drew attention from many, including the sinister mages known as the Oriq.




The knights of Troinir Keep took the rhino as their emblem due to its intense focus when charging down a perceived threat—a trait they discovered on a hunting excursion.
Altered by Phyrexian science, corrupted by black mana, and twisted by rage, Ertai still looked in the mirror and saw only glory.
Her hand gently beckons, she whispers your name—
But those who go with her are never the same.




"Yesterday it was flying tigers and crumbling bridges. Who knows what today will bring?"
—Dol, Lavabrink quartermaster
The forest grew back so quickly that lumbering machines were suspended in the treetops.






"When the land is angry, so are they."
—Nissa Revane

"Listen to the roar! Feel the thunder! The Immersturm shouts its approval with every bolt of lightning!"
Her most popular flavors are vanilla, maple pecan crunch, and Glurgian galactopod.

"Day 77: The homunculus within the crystal continues to mimic my every movement. I wonder what they are writing?"
—Laboratory notes of Yzlkpk




The only force on Ixalan not interested in finding the golden city is Ixalan itself.


It sees shaped stone and carved wood as mutilations.

"Within blood is life. Within life is fire. Within fire is the path to our masters' glory!"
When Gatha fell, he was called to account for each abomination he created.
Goblin mountaineer, barely keeps his family fed.


"Nature's exceptions remind us not to think in absolutes. Just as the orchid blossoms on blackened stone, so does the gift of mana occasionally manifest in the undead."
—Bougrat, druid of the Cult of Yore

Slain warriors were buried with a tree sapling, so they would become a part of the forest after death.



"Watch your backs, keep your blades at hand, and let the orc go first!"
—Captain Brandis Thorn

"Progress is our great inheritance, perfection our ultimate destination."





"It is evidence that some pure corner of the world must still exist."
—Djeru, former Tah-crop initiate

"Fyndhorn is our home."
—Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order
In death, as in life, they protect the Grand Arbiter from exposure to contrary points of view.


The seeds of new life take root in the soil of old.
They poured from the Skirk Ridge like lava, burning and devouring everything in their path.



Urza's metathran children were conceived, birthed, and nurtured by an integrated system of machines.
She provides marks of protection to those she chooses as family.
"A ribbon torn will ward away dark dreams."
Occasionally a skaab remembers too much of its former life. Luckily, there's an easy cure.

Thieves know that a snarl in the night means, "Rob another house."
The Earth herself lends her strength to these walls of living stone, which possess the stability of ancient mountains. These mighty bulwarks thwart ground-based troops, providing welcome relief for weary warriors who defend the land.
In the rapture of his Blood Fast, he destroyed the navigator's tools and steered the ship to shore by faith alone.
Wizards fought over the stone to exploit its power. Goblins fight over it because it's shiny.
"Nature is the ultimate mindless destroyer, capable of power and ferocity no army can match, and the Gruul follow its example."
—Trigori, Azorius senator
He remembers a past of light and healing. But he lives the bitter present—parching salt, scouring wind, and the withering heat of the desert.
Born from a stray spark that flew from Purphoros's forge.

"The skies used to be my refuge, a place of peace away from the chaos below. Now, with every flight, death seems to follow me like a shadow."
—Writings of Cica, Skyjek scout


"Rise, metathran. You shall serve a nobler cause in death."
—Tsabo Tavoc, Phyrexian general



Thakolides the Mighty
Slayer of minotaurs
Vanquisher of giants
Killed by a scorpion
—Inscription on an Akroan grave



The mage felt as though he'd been in the stasis suit for days. Upon his return, he found it was months.
"In the midst of horror beyond imagining, I still see things that lift my heart."
—Ezuri
To the end, all Oketra did was for others.
"The timeless, tireless jaws of nature shall one day devour us all."
—Sildark, artificer of Omu

Fire is never a gentle master.

"As Argoth's last defenders fell to Urza's juggernauts, Titania said, 'Nature cannot be destroyed, only changed.'"
—*The Antiquities War*
Life has always been a dance. It is only fitting that death sing the tune.
"Born under the moon, the second child will stumble on temptation and seek power in the dark places of the heart."
—Codex of the Constellari



"Neither could I forget what I had read of these pits—that the sudden extinction of life formed no part of their most horrible plan."
—Edgar Allan Poe, "The Pit and the Pendulum"
"The Vanished must have sent it from beyond to aid us in this struggle."
—Kessla, Sylvok shaman
"Death shall prevail as long as our will falls to rust. May necessity anneal our resolve."
—Ghalma the Shaper
A match for any army—even its own.
Do not fear the lightning. Fear the one it obeys.
Alhammarret rose to his feet, and the full force of his mind hit Jace like a storm front.




"Petrifying gaze, deadly fangs, knifelike dorsal spines, venomous saliva . . . Am I missing anything? . . . Toxic bones? Seriously?"
—Samila, Murasa Expeditionary House
"Battle is our religion. This fortress is our temple."
—Latulla, Keldon overseer
The warriors of the Blade Tribe charged the golem, twenty strong. They returned numbering ten . . . and a half.



When it snared a passing cockatrice, its own soul darkly doubled.

More so than "storm" or "pirate," "drake" is the word a sailor least wants to hear.

"How could someone so small cause so much trouble?"
—Nomad sentry
"We three, though of separate ancestry, join in brotherhood. . . . We dare not hope to be together always but hereby vow to die the selfsame day."
—Peach Garden Oath



One pounce, she's hungry-you die quickly. Two, she's teaching her cubs-you're in for a long day.
Wary of the ferocious dinosaurs, the Legion of Dusk built up the walls of their fort—just in time for the pirates to burn them down.


"I am light. I am dark. I must give my life to serve; not even death can release me."

"Ow! Ow ow ow! Oooh, ow, OW!"
Magistrate Ludy agreed to designate land for the brushstriders only after several broken windows and dozens of missing blini-cakes.
It may look like soil, but its nature is malice.
Telepathy changes minds, necromancy changes lives, but geomancy changes the world.
"Defeating the Meletians was not so difficult. I needed only to move a mountain."
—Eocles, oracle of Purphoros


Born to, and of, rock.
Creatures of the Æther are notorious for neglecting their own well-being.
In a culture of beauty, the most beautiful are worshipped as gods.
"With the drum of hooves and a flash of blades, the monster's terrifying roar changed to a cry of fear."
—*Legend of the Gilded Knights*
"Don't blame me. You're the one walking around with skin."
—Zul Ashur, lich lord
"Let's begin this conversation again, and this time you will only listen."


"The world has enough strife as it is. Where would we be if we turned against each other?"
—Pianna, nomad captain




They range from Sage-Eye Stronghold to the farthest reaches of Tarkir.

"Honorable in battle, generous in death."
—Motto of the Kjeldoran Royal Guard

"I knew you were set in your ways, friend, but even I didn't expect you to keep our engagement, under the circumstances."

Ugin saw the gem that connected Bolas to his Meditation Realm as the key to his brother's downfall.

"Yes, she is made of pure belief—but I hardly see why that makes her unique."
—Reith, master illusionist
The cause remained unclear, but the fact was undeniable: nights were lengthening faster than in any autumn past.
"They're a hardy bunch, but I'd still bet that they just slept through the worst of the cold times."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry
Like a meteor, it strikes from above without warning. Unlike a meteor, it then carries you off and eats you.
Although greatly prized among falconers, the Zephyr Falcon is capricious and not easily tamed.

Teferi's legacy lives on in Tolaria through the study of time magic and a tradition of irrepressible mischief.
A humble appearance belies a master's skill.
Slain warriors were buried with a tree sapling, so they would become a part of the forest after death.


Many initiates believe it possesses secrets known only to Kefnet himself. Many have become meals trying to learn them.
Visiting a shrine at the start of a journey makes the traveler more likely to finish it.
Teferi wanted no part of Urza's battle plans, but both agreed the Phyrexian portal must be closed.




"Do not go there, do not go / unless you rise on wings, unless you walk on hooves."
—"Song to the Sun," Femeref song
There is no world where angels fear to tread.
At every fifth full moon, the Moon Market convenes to peddle Ravnica's most forbidden wares.
It pelts the land with its fury, spoiling what was once sweet.




Paliano's creations provide ample opportunities to plot the downfall of a neighbor.
"An angel appeared in the smoldering skies above the fray, her clothes as flames, her armor as fire."
—"Hymn of Angelfire"
A light to bring hope in dark times.
"You're just one more pollutant to be removed from the sea."
The mating habits of Treefolk, particularly the stalwart Ironroot Treefolk, are truly absurd. Molasses comes to mind. It's amazing the species can survive at all given such protracted periods of mate selection, conjugation, and gestation.
Jingling coins beckon many an eager hand.
Some use magic to spy through walls. Others use it to crush them.
It would be unfortunate if the key fell into the wrong hands.
A vortex that devours everything—even the souls of the living.

Legend has it that the mine howls out the last words of those who died inside.
"Young Vitima bellowed to the Cosmos, daring the gods to punish her hubris! Well, she got their attention, as you can see."
—Iskene, Kannah storyteller
"Mind if I just lie down right here for a few weeks?"
Out of the blackness and stench of the engulfing swamp emerged a shimmering figure. Only the splattered armor and ichor-stained sword hinted at the unfathomable evil the knight had just laid waste.
Fire Elementals are ruthless infernos, annihilating and consuming their foes in a frenzied holocaust. Crackling and blazing, they sear swift, terrible paths, leaving the land charred and scorched in their wake.
"I love those who are eager to serve."
—Liliana Vess
"The coronation of King Numsgil, no . . . adventures of Tuktuk, no . . . the saga of Morpo the bard, no! Where's *my* story?"
Take two steps north into the unsettled future, south into the unquiet past, east into the present day, or west into the great unknown.

"The sylex blast marked not only the end of the war, but the end of Dominaria as most knew it."
—*The Antiquities War*

The darkness of his shield reflects the inky blackness of his soul.
Unpredictable as a storm and destructive as a tidal wave.
Was it the sight, smell, or aura of the Necrite that killed so effectively?
The results of the test of strength were: Yes.
"Officially, there's nothing under that bridge to hunt . . . . Unofficially, my torchers are too terrified to go there after nightfall."
—Agrus Kos


"Behind every devil's mayhem lurks a demon's scheme."
—Rem Karolus, Blade of the Inquisitors


Simic initiates begin their training as experimental subjects. Failures are flushed to the undersewers.
Everybody knows that to ward off trouble, you knock on wood. But usually it's better to make a wall out of the wood and let trouble do the knocking.

A moment in time made tangible, it has the power to realize epic visions.











"Proud am I, / strong am I, / courageous in defending my children / and fierce in punishing what stands in my way."
—"So the Elephant Speaks," Zhalfirin song


It's rather embarrassing to end up with your head mounted over his hearth.


"From a tiny sprout, the greatest trees grow and flourish. May the seeds of your mind be equally fruitful."
「人を消すのにほとんどエネルギーはいらない。稀で宇宙がその存在を全く気にしてないかのようにな。」
——エクスタス・ナー
"They play by spitting fire at each other. Don't be offended if one gives you a love-scorch."
—Esfir, Rakdos dragon wrangler

Its insatiable hunger quickly depletes a region of prey. It must migrate from place to place to feed its massive bulk.

Simic biomancers don't concern themselves with guarding a gate. Their ever-present creations are enough to ward off trespassers.


"Whether we like it or not, our arrival has altered the landscape."
—Malcolm, navigator of the *Belligerent*


"I swear this before all gods old and new: I will fight to my last breath."


They say dromosaurs are frightened of dogs, even little ones. There are no dogs in Shiv. Not even little ones.

Light's champion in the stronghold of darkness.
"With a bow like this, the hunting is always good."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, Elvish Hunter


Although officials said it was a sewer failure, the people whispered that it was a warning of night's reach.
"Before the battle, I heard them take an oath near the ruins of Sea Gate. I hope they inspire others to keep watch."

He spent his life searching for the *Locked Tome of Eremil*. In the end, his mind held together just long enough to decipher a single word.
No earthly armor is protection against this sweetness.

His roots reach deep and grip hard.

Dwell longest on the thoughts that shine brightest.

Chandra never believed in using her "inside voice."

"The soul? Here, we have no use for such frivolities."
—Sitrik, birth priest
You are not prey until a predator knows of your existence.
Designed by Brian Fargo

Enter those with the vision to create and the daring to release their creations.
"I carry my home in my heart."

"A single tree does not a forest make. We are stronger when we stand together."
—Numa, Joraga chieftain
The highway of fear is the shortest route to defeat.
"Our forces number more than the leaves of Vitu-Ghazi. Do not provoke us."
Massive, mindless, and imbued with one terrible purpose.
There's only one thing worse than a hungry lion—many hungry lions.
"There's no better place to divine the future than at a nexus of branching presents."

For every eye gouged out, two blinked open.
The Azorius symbol stares down like a great eye, reminding visitors of the watchful presence of Isperia and her lawmages.


"Awake, and lift your faces to the sun."
"Ask of Keranos that you may understand the stars that mark your destiny. Implore Erebos that you may accept the fate thus divulged."

"Knowledge is such a burden. Release it. Release all your fears to me."
—Ashiok, Nightmare Weaver
Bant is a world where death and chaos hold no sway.
"I often think on how excited they must feel to be chosen as my prey."

"Hallowed be this potpourri of sundry goods!"
"Send it back to its own strange world so we can avoid another inglorious combat with these wicked beings."
—Captain Valek of Jhess
"Limitless power is glorious until you gain limitless understanding."
—Ixidor, reality sculptor


"Cry havoc and let slip the dogs of war."
—William Shakespeare, *Julius Caesar*

The ground collapsed, leaving nothing but the great Worms' mucous residues.

"I have seen countless petty warmongers gaze on it for a time before turning away."
—Sarlena, paladin of the Northern Verge

Those of esteemed birth earn a most esteemed death.
"It was a bad evening for you, mate. Now it's chow time for the sharks."


"After Auntie brushed the soot from her eyes, she discovered something wonderful: the fire had turned the goat into something that smelled delicious."
—A tale of Auntie Grub
Captain Angrath cares less about treasure than mayhem. If he can't leave Ixalan, he'll burn the plane down.


"Your army must fear you more than the enemy. Only then will you triumph." —Malga Phlegmtooth

Earth elementals have the eternal strength of stone and the endurance of mountains. Primordially connected to the land they inhabit, they take a long-term view of things, scorning the impetuous haste of short-lived mortal creatures.
Designed by George Fan
"Arise, great one, and cleanse the world of our enemies!"

Genestealer Cults bide their time on Imperial worlds, spreading tendrils of corruption through the native population.
The Nightmare arises from its lair in the swamps. As the poisoned land spreads, so does the Nightmare's rage and terrifying strength.



"Every choice alters the path of fate."
—Sarkhan Vol
"Through the blood of the wicked, we shall be redeemed. Let us pray."
Llanowar has seven elfhames, or kingdoms, each with its own ruler. Their palaces are objects of awe, wonder, and envy.
Riders chase the fading light recklessly through the mountains, desperate for one last glimpse of day.
The louder the elephant trumpeted, the more the crowd cheered. And the more the crowd cheered . . .
Some protection requires a bit of finesse.
As part of their indoctrination and training, a psyker learns to focus their mental strength through a psycho-reactive staff.










Drink deep, and know the path to the heart of the wilds.
"The Founder Dragons brought the Blood Age to an end. It is an honor to serve them."



"I feel the vine-rhythm as my friends drive the beast to me. I will not miss my mark."
"One down, several thousand more to go."
Imbued in the Ancient Fang were spells far darker than any Dack Fayden would cast.

"The identifying ornamental growths of alpha thallids may be hereditary, or catalyzed by some chemical signal."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. III*

Her sword sings more beautifully than any choir.

To gain audience with the hegemon, one must bring a riddle she has not heard.




"Humans bring nothing but suffering and deceit. They are not welcome in my forest."

There is no greater bulwark than the Praetors of the Adeptus Custodes, the bodyguards of the Emperor of Mankind.


"Contrary to popular wisdom, I find it's best to fight fire with its opposite."
"I have exactly what you need. The question is, how badly do you need it?"
"What wishes do they grant? Mostly pinching-related ones."
—Omik, superintendent of waterworks


The most battle-worn zombies are equal parts stitch and stench.
Consulate-built automatons have a lifetime warranty.



Some souls are too damaged to be of use to the Orzhov.
"A blessing is not a gift. It is a duty."
"We have always counted time with sand; this pinch is your meaningless life."
—Nailah, self-proclaimed Queen of Rabiah

"Approach my tower on bended knee or depart from it as ash upon the wind."
—Gadwick, the Wizened


He raged at the world, at his family, at his life. But mostly he just raged.

To become king of the Goblins, one must assassinate the previous king. Thus, only the most foolish seek positions of leadership.
Information pumps like blood through vedalken society.
Alone in the charred desolation of her kingdom, she regretted many things—most of all not acting sooner.
"From this day forward, we confront this world together, lifting each other up."

"Grease up a firecannon good and proper with dinosaur-liver oil, and it'll shoot just about anything."
"It's easy to lose sight of hope until you gaze out from my vantage point."
Flowstone troops are notoriously difficult to keep in formation.
"Remember the moral of the fireslinger fable: with power comes isolation."
—Karn, silver golem

"Hmm . . . maybe lotuses this year."
First, whispers of ancient days. Then, visions of things to come.

Before he was the Father of Machines, Yawgmoth was a twisted Thran physician, and his legacy of medical atrocities lives on in New Phyrexia.
Don't dig up the past if you're not prepared for the consequences.
Though you may see the same bones, you'll never see the same skeleton twice.
"Entertain me."
Renegades find ever more creative ways to work around the Consulate's aether regulations.
The giant Tarvik dreamed that trinkets and machines caused all the world's woe. When he awoke from his troubled sleep, he took the name Tarvik Relicsmasher.
After six days in the hands of the Gixians, what remained was utterly unrecognizable as the person it once was.
A job well done means a rest well earned.




To the spiders of Argoth, thopters were just bigger, crunchier flies.

"We must shake her limbs and rattle her brains."
—Grandmother Sengir

It was the explorers' only tether to reality.
"An innocent man died because of my anger. That knowledge will haunt me for all eternity."
—Karn, silver golem
"Who will be the hero of my tale?"
"How can we outrun the sky?"
—Hadran, sunseeder of Naya
Anarchy comes in many forms: social, individual, Gruul . . .
Squee tucked the warm ball in his pocket and slipped a pebble in its place. 'Glok,' he mumbled, and hid.
"These alleys are not safe. Come, I can guide you back to the market square."





Izzet delved into the depths of Ravnica's past, and Selesnya followed without fear.


"Avacyn has abandoned us! We have nothing left except what we can take!"
Terrible fury. Excellent aim.







Newcomers to Otaria find themselves at the bottom of the heap. In the pits, they at least have the chance to climb atop a heap of bodies.
"You were once Mardu, so your body and will are strong. Now we must train your mind."
—Houn, Jeskai elder

"He is Thassa's. I could not sway him."
—Kiora

"The secret of this world weighs upon us, and we have been shaped by time and duty to bear it."






Sometimes violent earthquakes, hurtling boulders, and unseasonable dust storms are wrongly attributed to the Roil.
"They have knives for every soul."
—Lyna, Soltari emissary
He vowed he would never rest until he reached his destination. He doesn't know how right he was.
嘘と霧から生み出されたものにも関わらず、その飢えと怒りは力を持つ。



Just when you thought you'd be safe, in the middle of an open field with no Eldrazi around for miles.

Watching the windreaper
—Zhalfirin phrase meaning "daydreaming"
"Life up here is simple. Adapt to the ways of the mountains and they will reward you. Fight them and they will end you."
—Kezim, prodigal pyromancer
"Holy places are no longer sanctuary from death, and death is no longer sanctuary from anything."
—Thalia, Knight-Cathar
Venser wondered if it could still be called a teleportation spell if the destination is oblivion.
Scholars say that arbiters exist on every world, created by an unknown hand to enforce justice.
"You'd better be worth it."
—Liliana Vess
"Nothing in nature goes to waste, not even the rotting corpse of a good-for-nothing, blood-sucking vampire."
—Halana of Ulvenwald
Archaeologists don't just dig in the dirt. They excavate time, scraping off the years grain by grain.
"The Houses always hope for peace, but we always pack for war."
—Gvar Barzeel, krumar commander

"Just the thing for those pesky water mages."
—Jaya Ballard, task mage
"Is it wrong to go straight for what you want? Sneaking is for cats and goblins."
—Tahngarth of the *Weatherlight*


Blood is holy to those whose god is War.

"Hear us, Overmother. Let the strong thrive under your gelatinous hand, and let the weak writhe under your serrated heel."
—Prayer of the devoted
Fear the patient devil, the one who is calm in the midst of chaos. Beware the silent devil, the one whose cackle does not mingle with the others.


There were no tombstones in orochi territory. Slain warriors were buried with a tree sapling, so they would become a part of the forest after death.
Created to break will and bone with equal ferocity.




"The next one who tells me to relax and curl up by a fire is dead."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight*
"By my power, werewolves shall become the wolfir, our allies in combat against darkness."
—Avacyn's Cursemute Decree
"Your graves will lie beneath my final nest."
1|= y()u (4|\| r3@d 7#][5, y0|_| /\r3 @ IVI0/\/$+3|2 &33|<

"Why, Gideon? Of all people, why save me?"
Despite the reemergence of werewolves and the proliferation of Eldrazi, elk numbers in the Somberwald have remained steady.
The undisputed master of the mountains of Shiv.
"Do you want to be alive or whole?"
—Ta-Karnst, Cho-Arrim healer



"The enemy is getting too close! Quick! Inflate the toad!"
Just as Serra crafted angels of light and faith, Urza constructed an army of sorcery and power to resist the coming invasion.


Together the soldiers were like a golden blade, cutting down their enemies and scarring the darkness.
Any pyromancer can summon fire with a thought. The trick is putting it out.
The sphinx tyrannized Bant until a rhox mage tested the hardiness of her shiny parts.

Victories against the hive are tragedies.
"I search for a vision of Zendikar that does not include the Eldrazi."
—Expedition journal entry



It is the forest beyond the horizon, the mountain waiting to be climbed, the new land across the endless sea.
Havoc is a small price to pay for data.
Sima Yi fought for four generations of the Cao family before his own grandson became emperor and united the three kingdoms.


A tried-and-true favorite of many wizards, whatever their school.



Forged by divine hands to wander mortal realms.

"We have done our best to heal this land together, but now I must entrust the future to my sister. She will carry our dreams onward into the sunrise."
—Michiko Konda's journal
"The treasure in my mind is greater than any worldly glory."
"As the years passed, Urza turned his focus from the Thran to worlds beyond his own, seeking any spell or technology that might break the Phyrexian scourge."
—*Urza: From Prodigy to Planeswalker*
Little agonies pave the way to greater power.


"My ruling is final. Order is upheld. Justice is done."

"We all hide a little madness behind our sophistication, do we not?"

It disappears each time with the hope that it will not return to the same desolation it left behind.
There is beauty in the space between learning to fly and taking it for granted.
Those who hear her go mad with inspiration.
Countless delights drift on the surface while dark schemes run below.
Hunters in the primeval wetlands become fluent in reading the ripples to tell when to pursue and when to flee.
"This breed is on the cusp of evolution. It burns away the markings that connect it to a queen that no longer heeds its call. It seeks a new master. Perhaps I can give it one."
—Freyalise
"I give my blood, my life, all I have in exchange for victory."
What is high as a mountain and low as a snake?
—Dal riddle


Death turned admirable conviction into pointless intransigence.

When defeat is near and guidance is scarce, all eyes look in one direction.
The practice of tracking and training Thunderwolves is a sort of initiation ritual into the upper echelons of the Wolf Guard.


If you want to wreak havoc above, sometimes it's best to look below.
"Stand still and try not to look like prey!"
—Skerk Hobnett, wilderness guide

Gatha showed remarkable prowess in increasing his subjects' stature. Their lifespans, however, were another matter.


"Shame to let good gold go to the grave."

"The echo of silence is music to my ears."
It readily attacks much larger prey, knowing retaliation is impossible.
To be counted among the warriors of Setessa's Leina Tower, you must not fear death, only failure.
The first morning after acquiring her familiar, the wizard awoke with fleabites and mange.


Every odyssey begins with a single step.

「騎士カスリンは目を閉じ、最期を覚悟すました。再びめを開けると、勝利を勝ちっていたのです。」
—-癒し手のタダス、回顧録
What goes up, must come down.



"Oh, you must be mistaken. Hawks are solitary hunters, you see."
—Bunder Diedreck, ornithologist






It promises protection to those in need and proclaims a warning to any who would threaten Ravnican law.
It doesn't think. It doesn't feel. It doesn't laugh or cry. All it does from dusk till dawn Is make the soldiers die.
—Onean children's rhyme


Skirsdag cultists believe that the right poison "purifies" a tainted soul before it makes its way to Ormendahl.
"Cretins build machines. I construct destiny."

Slow and steady wins the race.

"I *am* the storm."

"The greatest gift Dromoka gives is the ability to fly without wings."
—Urdnan, Dromoka warrior
The maze-like design embodies the core of Azorius law—strict structure designed to test wills and stall change.
The impact sent the soldiers scattering—then something came out of the crater.
"As the future slips its way into the present, it ceases to be my concern."


The Abzan turn to this spell only as a last resort, for its inevitable result is what they most dread: to be alone.
"From a sea of infinite possibilities, our choices create the future."
—Mu Yanling


"To bring her down we must be on all sides at once—leave one avenue open and we'll all be dead."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter
Dust and memory are all that remain in Ulamog's wake.
Befuddled by this new game, Argg longed for the days of Rock, Rock, Rock.
"Speak little. Do much."


Chandra never believed in using her "inside voice."


"You've begun to understand the hedrons' true purpose," said Ugin. "The Eldrazi can be imprisoned."
"And how did that work out last time?" asked Jace.
She parts the clouds so sunlight can reach even the darkest lairs and duskiest tombs.
The elves gathered huge piles of rot to grow fungus. Out of imitation or forethought, the thallids did the same.
Many who cross Sorin's path come down with a sudden and fatal case of being-in-the-way-of-a-millennia-old-vampire.
Jhovalls sharpen their claws on trees—or on Mercadians, if no trees are handy.

As hot as a dwarf's rage.







The undead of Grixis are fueled by their hatred of the living.

"Is this what you found, Tamiyo?"
—Jace Beleren


Only in dew from Oona herself is there clarity enough to see a victim's mind.
There came a rush, a sudden fire in the mind. Then the two saw only the sooty fog of madness, heard only the crackling of their last thoughts burning away.
I cradle my rage even as the earth cradles my dead kin.
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight*
The bane of all artificers, the legendary Atogs devoured intricate tools to further their own twisted growth.
While it's true most dragons are cruel, the Shivan dragon seems to take particular glee in the misery of others, often tormenting its victims much like a cat plays with a mouse before delivering the final blow.
"My people blazed these pathways long ago, before the Eldrazi came. We will ride them long after the Eldrazi are gone."
Death claims all but the darkest souls.


"On this plane, the use of magic can provoke a ferocious reprisal from nature. Whoever the Eldrazi were, their relics left Zendikar forever enraged."
—Jace Beleren
Every shaft is graven with a name from a kin tree, calling upon the spirits of the ancestors to make it fly true.
Destiny exalts a chosen few, but even heroes break.

The longer it stands among the deadly blades of the Razor Fields, the more it adopts their harsh exterior.



They fell screaming into the depths of the chasm like so many pebbles tossed down a well.
Masters of the arcane savor a delicious irony. Their study of deep and complex arcana leads to such a simple end: the ability to say merely yes or no.
"If the worst parts of history can repeat themselves, it stands to reason that the best parts can as well."
—Teferi
"To bring her down we must be on all sides at once—leave one avenue open and we'll all be dead."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, Elvish Hunter


The Krark Clan believes it's caught an ogre. The ogre believes he's caught seven goblins.








Tawnos won fame as Urza's greatest assistant. After he created these warriors, Urza ended his apprenticeship, promoting him directly to the rank of master.

From thrilling combat to unparalleled vistas, Valor's Reach has it all.

Frozen by conscience, Karn did not resist as the moggs carried him to the *Predator*.
The peaks of Hurloon never fall silent.
The Thran's machines were not dead after all, merely dormant . . . and waiting.
"The specimen seems to be broken."
"The gifts of the past must find their way into deserving hands."


". . . that's when I reeled in a human about yay big."
"Together we can unlock secrets no one has even dreamed of. I might even let you remember some of them."
"When you have mastered my lessons, it will seem as though the whole of the world has opened up to your mind and nothing is beyond your grasp."
—Lady Azami

The mage scowled as yet another bolt splashed harmlessly against seemingly empty air.
The naga of the Sultai Brood made deals with dark forces to keep their power.
Widow Weber's new scarecrow seemed to attract more crows than it scared off.
It embodies all possible meanings of the word "infinite."
You need only raise your spear to receive this blessing.
The oni leapt easily from peak to peak, toying with its victims, its voice a purr from the rumbling depths of nightmare.
The heart of a golem gives life to more than just the iron husk around it.
Swift, strong, and selfless, the centaurs are the shields of the Conclave.

"A thankless job, and a death sentence besides."
—Eron the Relentless

He's mastered the art of sleight of land.
"Long after the land has given up the last of its secrets, there will still be mysteries in the depths of the sea."
—Kiora
"Would you prefer I destroy you using prose or verse?"
Benalia has a complex caste system that changes with the lunar year. No matter what the season, the only caste that cannot be attained by either heredity or money is that of the hero.

A cry of pain as it enters this world. A chorus of screams as it leaves.


Teysa convened the meeting of the Obzedat. Kaya ended it.
Her ears are open to even the softest voice.
"The sun was born within its coils, but it fled to the sky. The wurm hungers for its child, and the world will bear its loss."
—Screed of the Mul Daya




"We are the flicker of the flame and its heat, the two sides of a single blade."


It's hard to keep a satyr down, even in the Underworld.



Darkness doesn't always send its minions to do its dirty work.


"Next!"


"Your debt is erased."
—Hilgur, Orzhov euthanist

"I prefer loyalty to be a matter of respect, not of magic. But one does what one must."
—Kaalia of the Vast
When Belzenlok's lieutenant Yar-Kul grew too ambitious, the Demonlord transformed him into a maggot. The frog that ate the maggot grew and grew, until a ravenous spirit burst from its body.


"It's not so easy anymore. Nothing grows in Kjeldor but seaweed."
—Halvor Arensson, Kjeldoran Priest


Keldons were accustomed to rugged terrain, but they never expected it to be aggressive.

Thunder doesn't always mean rain. Sometimes it means ruin.
"The costumes are so realistic! I was mistaken for Nicol Bolas and attacked by a bunch of wizards! Five stars! They eventually let me go."
—*Salzon's Ride Review*
For the River Heralds, the Immortal Sun is an object of terror and devastation. The idea that anyone would retrieve it for their own use is utterly abhorrent.
"I am reminded of the fable of the silver egg. Its owner cracks it open to see what jewels it holds, only to discover a simple yellow yolk."
—Karn, silver golem


"Who needs a spear? Ya break off the horn, and ya stab the fish with it. Easy!"
—Kakra, sea troll


"Welcome to the Dimir Public Offices. Not responsible for death or loss of property. Basement off-limits."
—Sign outside Dinrova Building
His enemies wondered if the lich king's brutal death and unnatural rebirth had been his plan all along.
"No harm can come to me while the Worldsoul shelters me."
"The bloodlust shall not control me, for my oath is my greatest compulsion."
2016 North American Legacy Champion

"The magic at the heart of all living things can bear awe-inspiring fruit."
—Kolevi of Havenwood, elder druid

Sigarda was the last uncorrupted archangel, but she would not have to fight alone.

Genius is overrated, especially when it's someone else's.
"We have no sun to guide our dead, so I tend the prismatic flames of the spirit fires that show the souls their way. When I die, I hope there is one left to guide my spirit home."
"Once, our people could call down the storm itself to do our bidding."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
He stands in the shadow of his lord, Geth, drinking in the dark energies of the Vault.
Thick smoke billows and twists to form disturbing faces that cackle and click their teeth to the popping embers.

"Where will you run when I punish you with the very ground you flee on?"
—Nicol Bolas


"O to be a dragon . . . of silkworm size or immense . . ." —Marianne Moore, "O to Be a Dragon"
Dweldian magi don't enter the Realm of Thrones when they die. Instead their souls are drawn to great works of magic.

The ancient green dragon Claugiyliamatar is often seen with a mangled corpse dangling from her mouth.


The sigil represents an honor that endures beyond death.

"No longer am I shackled to antiquity. My new masters will etch a glorious future."


"More rope may not be necessary."
—Kep, Lunarch inquisitor

"The arc of my blade has carved a path of light for the peace that will follow."

"Let them see what is not there and feel what does not touch them. When they no longer trust their senses, that is the time to strike."
—Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen



Those who follow nature's path eventually walk in a circle.
"Just a nibble for now. I wouldn't want to ruin my appetite."

"You. Poet. Be sure to write this down."
"The black-and-white sacred monkey holds her children to her, and waits."
—"Love Song of Night and Day"

Both guide and guard on open plain.

Dreams' riches are easily spent.
—Suq'Ata adage

In the Skyfang Mountains, one misstep can mean the end of an entire clan.
"Then flashed the living lightning from her eyes,/ And screams of horror rend th' affrighted skies."
—Alexander Pope, The Rape of the Lock

Twigs broken underfoot in Llanowar tend to return the favor.
"As Terisiare's mines ran dry, scrap metal became increasingly plentiful."
—*The Antiquities War*

The form of the sigil is just as important as the sigil itself. If it's carried on a medallion, its bearer is a master. If it's tattooed on the body, its bearer is a slave.
"I don't care when the hedrons awoke. *Why* is the question that really matters."
—Anowon, the Ruin Sage
The information booth can answer over thirty-seven billion questions. Half the guests ask where the bathroom is.
"You have returned from fire, traitor. This time I will see you leave as ashes."
—Zurgo, to Sarkhan Vol


Once guarded by the Knights of the Reliquary, the tower stands now protected only by its own remoteness, its dusty treasures open to plunder by anyone.
In Meletis, the walls have ears. In Akros, they have blades.
Dreams' riches are easily spent.
—Suq'Ata adage


"We must rely on our own knowledge, not on the dogma of the seekers or the mutterings of the sphinxes."
—Tullus of Palandius
"Survival of the fittest is not only the law of the pits, it is the law of nature. That is why I fight."

"Sure, I've got nine lives, but that doesn't mean I'm keen to waste one now."
"Gix doesn't want a people to rule but puppets to entertain his madness."
—Xantcha, Phyrexian outcast

The brightness of day turned in an instant to dusk as the swarm descended upon the battlefield.

A sandwurm can lie in wait beneath the sands for years until the slightest tremor alerts it to the presence of prey.

You've never cared much for laws or authority, especially when they get in your way.
Its laughter drives needles through your mind.
"I think Chandra just wanted something to blame random scorch marks on."
—Jace Beleren
The Neurok see the artificer as an archaeologist, clearing away falsehoods to see the truth hidden beneath.




Her eyes see through the rotting flesh and glimpse a soul in agony, begging for the Blessed Sleep.
It loves to eat all things crispy, crunchy, and cheddar flavored.


"That's a lotta nuggets."
—Jaya Ballard, task mage
In the abstract memories of the Iquati, Jace found interesting ideas to improve upon.

"I need an army, not a masterpiece. Accelerate output, whatever it takes."
—Urza, notes to his engineers


Not everyone should take joy in their work.


Nature doesn't walk.


A moment of distraction, a lifetime of regret.


They seek out living trees to glean age-old secrets from sap and wood.
Architects find inspiration in the dragon's beauty of form, while artificers are influenced by the function of its fire.
"Those who fear the darkness have never seen what the light can do."
—Selenia, dark angel
Some of the eleven minotaur clans of Mirtiin are expert crafters and learned philosophers. Others just like to hit stuff.

"Urza, I've discovered more promising students than you and my husband have, combined. And I haven't lost a single one."
—Rayne, Academy Chancellor





"Let each challenge make you a better warrior."
—Anthousa of Setessa

Courage alone won't keep you alive.


Rath forces plants from its surface as one presses whey from cheese.

"I won't pollute my blade with your blood, demon. You'll die by your own axe!"



Trod on by a gargadon
—Kipamu expression meaning "wiped out"

When the Honden of Seeing Winds was forgotten, its attendants swarmed Kamigawa to uncover mortal secrets.
"Some fates you can see coming for you, plain as day, and there's nothing you can do about them."
—Callaphe the mariner


"Why fight over scraps of land when there's so much sky waiting to be claimed?"
"They say the ruins of Sedraxis were once a shining capital in Vithia. Now it is a blight, a place to be avoided by the living."
—Olcot, Rider of Joffik
"By all means, take another step toward the captain."

Rayne once made several unkind comparisons between the bird's naked opportunism and Urza's.
In desolate places, changelings may take the shape of fancies, or memories, or fears.
"We're going to need a bigger gate."
—Bowen, Barrenton guardcaptain

It's difficult to outwit something that doesn't speak, strategize, or even think.

Benalia has a complex caste system that changes with the lunar year. No matter what the season, the only caste that cannot be attained by either heredity or money is that of the hero.
A bloody dawn broke over a scabbed and tortured world.
"When all else fails, follow the geist's lantern."
—Vallon, Thraben inspector


Nethya stiffened suddenly, head cocked as if straining to hear some distant sound, then fell lifeless to the ground.


Every line holds a tale, and between lie a thousand more.
The dragon had a lot of things going through his mind that day. He didn't expect a sword to be one of them.

The elder who carries the ancestral mantle of Jacques le Vert is tasked with his ancient mission: to protect the creatures of Pendelhaven.
An Atarka dragon's exhale cooks what its inhale consumes.

"In you go, big guy. Watch your head."
Atarka is worshipped and fed by her subjects at Ayagor, the Dragon's Bowl.
"I will build no sanctuaries. The safety you seek can be won only by the sword."
—Yannash, outpost builder
Krond, the personification of the dawn's light, lives to exact justice on his nemesis Vela.


Most auramancers would have let the spikes hover just above the skin. Having the spikes rip through the skin from beneath was a touch added by Rakdos himself.

Minotaurs sometimes pretend to be lost in a battle rage, leading their opponents to underestimate their cleverness.

Under Drana's leadership, vampires are finding new strength in unity.
Some naga initiates move as silently the suns' reflections on the water.
The passing of the sai presages the end of the old clan and the ascent of the new.



When wielded by a true believer, it matters little whether the sword is a relic or a replica.
"Justice is toothless without punishment. Righteousness cannot succeed without the suffering of the guilty."
—Razia
Akros's greatest heroes are also its royalty.
"We cannot escape change, but with faith and fortitude, we can mold it to our liking."
—Marel, Dawnhart witch





"We had years to prepare, while they had mere minutes."
—Kerrick, sleeper agent





"To-night the winds begin to rise . . . The rooks are blown about the skies . . . ."
—Alfred, Lord Tennyson, *In Memoriam*
"This is a new world and a new war. We need warriors who know chaos and how to combat it."
—Lisha of the Azure

"You were once Mardu, so your body and will are strong. Now we must train your mind."
—Houn, Jeskai elder
Leave the door to the past even slightly ajar and it could be blown off its hinges.


"It was made, yes, but that does not mean it cannot grow."
Held in the lion's eye
—Zhalfirin saying meaning "caught in the moment of crisis"

Ancient magic reshapes the stage into a variety of landscapes.
"This creature is inadequate. Send it to the splicers for innovation."
—Malcator, Executor of Synthesis
"Once in the box, we're all the same."
"I have schemed too long to be supplanted by dead gods. If I cannot have this world, no one can."

Devils infiltrated the lower levels of Thraben Cathedral, making cracks in load-bearing pillars and setting fire to precious archives.

The only blow that matters is the killing blow.
A strict upgrade over the cinder hatchet.
"I've come to reclaim what is mine. And you, Greven, are mine."
—Volrath
Merfolk are best known for their subtle magic. But those who try to fight them in their own territory quickly realize that merfolk are hardly defenseless on the field of battle.





"If you weren't born with it, you don't need it."
—Grahilah, former trader of Amiqat
Spitting is the customary greeting between a creature and its magical impostor.
The most holy treasures are kept far from unclean soil.
"We have done our best to heal this land together, but now I must entrust the future to my sister. She will carry our dreams onward into the sunrise."
—Michiko Konda's journal
"Keep your friends close and your enemies within range."

"Once more, with killing!"
One moment, conscious only of a sense of repose. The next moment, hearing the trudge of his own footsteps. He sighed and squinted into the glare ahead.
After the Battle of Pitdown, Lady Ursnell fashioned the first such instrument out of Lord Ursnell's left leg.

Each Eldrazi ancient spawned a lineage of horrors in unfathomable shapes.

"He cocooned himself alone in his workshop for months. When he finally emerged, all broad grins and excited chatter, I knew he'd found his answer."
—Barrin, master wizard


"Is the inevitable any less miraculous?"
—Veldka, wandering sage
A spirit is both fettered and free—bound in some ways to its previous existence, yet able to transcend much of the corporeal.

Every grave cradles a recruit.






"Kaervek believes the drakes' cries herald his victory; in truth, they mourn aloud for his impending demise."
—Teferi


In Rakdos-controlled neighborhoods, everyone is part of the show.
"In the gathering there is strength for all who founder, renewal for all who languish, love for all who sing."
—*Song of All*, canto 642

Sentience is its natural habitat.
Ravnica's safest strongholds are often neither.




"Nothing is too broken to mend."
"Battle is all about where you stand. Never stand in my way."

The Mercadians were prepared for the guard, but the guard was even more prepared for the Mercadians.
In the late stages of a Tyranid invasion, sessile organisms take root in a planet's crust, converting its resources into biomass that can be extracted by the Hive Fleet.
Gix ensured his most loyal followers were the first to taste Phyrexian perfection.
"Let's see . . . Mercadia, mercenary, merfolk . . . you know, I really need a better filing system."



A unicorn chooses only the most virtuous and noble of knights to be its companion.
As a young student, she dusted the shelves of Tolaria's great library. Now, she writes the books that line them.
Law is the voice of reason.


"The fiercest loyalties are earned in battle."
—Gideon Jura
"The land has its own intentions, beyond the understanding of those who live on it."
—Nissa Revane
Braids dreams of dark rebirth.
Benalia has a complex caste system that changes with the lunar year. No matter what the season, the only caste that cannot be attained by either heredity or money is that of the hero.
"Hold the high ground, then bring it to your enemy."
—Surrak, khan of the Temur

"It's the pokey bits that hurt the most."
—Ib Halfheart, Goblin Tactician
"In the disarray of battle, an enemy's attack may be your most convenient weapon."
—Narset
"You can't think your way out of this, Jace. Thought implies life, and life requires a pulse—music to a hunter's ears."
—Vraska


Fruits of magic, roots in science.

"Wherever the strong would harm the weak, I will be there."
—Ajani Goldmane

We had taken refuge in a small cave, thinking the entrance was too narrow for it to follow. To our horror, its gigantic head smashed into the mountainside, ripping itself a new entrance.
"Those who do evil and those who do nothing are equally worthy of contempt."
With one motion, a pest is removed and a scourge inflicted.

"C'mon friend, take a turn tossing the knucklebones. What've you got to lose?"
—Tobias, trader of Erdwal
First, whispers of ancient days. Then, visions of things to come.
Dwarves' tools are priceless heirlooms handed down through generations.
It nurtures its masters' glorious future.
You don't want to know how she got that name.

"I've been all over this world. I even remember some of those places."
Zhang Fei's uncharacteristic alliance with a defeated Riverlands general, Yan Yan, allowed Shu forces to advance through forty-five Riverlands strongpoints with no casualties.


Ziatora's second-in-command has a habit of appearing when and where her enemies least expect her.
"While, like a ghastly rapid river,
Through the pale door,
A hideous throng rush out forever,
And laugh—but smile no more."
—Edgar Allan Poe, "The Haunted Palace"
The most frightening storms are those not woven by nature's hand.
Gaea battles rampant death with abundant life.

"Try not to look guilty. Or delicious."
—Thorpe, street urchin
The only shortcut in a bog is to the bottom.


It was Gerrard's nature to lead and the Mercadians' to follow.
It wasn't long before the taverns of High and Dry were full of whispers about the new captain who could turn a person to stone with a glance.

"A warrior without wit is simply meat."

Fire Elementals are ruthless infernos, annihilating and consuming their foes in a frenzied holocaust. Crackling and blazing, they sear swift, terrible paths, leaving the land charred and scorched in their wake.

A masterwork of spite, inspired by madness.



Heroes act without thought of glory or reward. Accolades are a consequence, not a goal.
"A good lagac will carry you through thick and thin. A bad one … well, it's a tasty dinner."
—Raff Slugeater, goblin shortcutter

Succession is a matter of blood, and by blood it is often decided.
"Ludevic's laboratory is a veritable wonderland. I have never felt so inspired."
—Stitcher Geralf

"Dong Zhuo's man, Lu Bu, warrior without peer, / Far surpassed the champions of his sphere."
Some things even fleas won't bite.
They poured from the Skirk Ridge like lava, burning and devouring everything in their path.

Those who raged most bitterly at the world in life are cursed to roam the nether realms in death.


"The caliph was so intelligent he could not remember what he knew."
—Azeworai, "Three Riddles"


"I run, and thunder follows."

Pockets full of gold, lungs full of brine.
"Auntie pointed out to the faerie how much mischief a flying boggart could wreak, and a beautiful new friendship was born."
—A tale of Auntie Grub
"If it is weak, either kill it or ignore it. Anything else honors it."
—Kaervek







"Angels are living proof that power does not always lead to corruption."
—Elspeth

A good Gruul shaman can work a whole clan into a frenzy. A great one will wait until the enemy's nearby.

Restricted auctions are held once a year at the Dragon's Lair—the sacred, neutral meeting ground of all Reckoner gangs.

Its purr is the sound of iron filings sliding down satin.
"We have built a wall upon sand. The wall will vanish. The sand will remain."
—Oracle *en*-Vec
There are medicines for all afflictions but idleness.
—Suq'Ata saying

One bone broken for every twig snapped underfoot.
—Llanowar penalty for trespassing

When asked how much power is required, Izzet mages always answer "more."
"We're finished here."

It destroys with unthinking glee.
"As more oni walked Kamigawa, more darkness infested its inhabitants' souls."
—*The History of Kamigawa*
"Four parts molten bronze, yes … one part frozen mercury, yes, yes … but then what?"


Boggarts divide the world into two categories: things you can eat, and things you have to chase down and pummel before you can eat.
They move in a synchronized swarm, turning entire squads into heaps of bloody rags and bones in an instant.
Moss-covered statues littered the area, a macabre monument to the Basilisk's power.





"That will pay for another arm extension all by itself! Well, as long as it doesn't explode."





"If you wish to produce the finest work, you must start with the finest tools."
As magnigoth trees expanded across the sea into Almaaz and New Argive, it became clear Yavimaya's borders were never confined by its coastline.
"Walk slowly when in the nether world, and seek that which calls."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer



The sea leaves no room for tears.
—Zhalfirin adage

"Creatures of the night dissolve like shadows in the light of faith."
—Thalia, Guardian of Thraben
Necromancers deal in commodities far more precious than gold and grain.

"Llanowar remembers the Ice Age, the Phyrexian Invasion, and the Rift Era. So long as we draw breath, we will ensure such disasters never threaten our world again."


"Of course I'm sure I've gone mad. The little man who crawled out of my eye was quite clear on this."


"Life is fleeting, and so is death. Only the oath is eternal."


Crovax was destined for an angel's curse, but one warped timeline saw the noble redeemed.
"Look to the north; there you will find aid and comfort." —The Book of Tal



Battered and beaten by years of salt and claw, he never ceased to walk, and to seed. Only now, in this time of rebirth, do his seeds take root.
The maze-like design embodies the core of Azorius law—strict structure designed to test wills and stall change.


It's hard to shout "Shields up!" with a javelin in your chest.
"With Tilonalli's gifts, even the smallest of us can become great."
—Huatli




Waves of gloom crash in vain against his unyielding light.
"I have a plan. Actually, I have three."


"They employ a foul sort of teamwork."
—General Tazri, allied commander
For the Sun Empire, the Immortal Sun is a symbol of national identity. When they reclaim it, the Empire will flourish once more.

"Like a strain of music: easy to remember but impossible to catch."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight*

"Follow your passion, I always say. Might as well get paid to do what you love."
The kor's most righteous dead are given the greatest reward: an eternity tied to the land they so cherish.
"You should see your face right now."









"My generosity blesses you all, even the undeserving."


The Sun Empire bends nature—rivers, mountainsides, dinosaurs—to its unyielding will.
The infamous Ezuri commands the highest bounty the vedalken have ever placed upon an outlaw.
His name is spoken only in whispers—but he hears just the same.



"The emergence of the Eldrazi isn't necessarily a bad thing, as long as you've already lived a fulfilling and complete life without regrets."
—Javad Nasrin, Ondu relic hunter


"You helped save my people from a Phyrexian fate. Did you think I wouldn't return the favor?"
—Eladamri, to Gerrard
"My family protects all families."
"My streets, my rules. You picked the wrong neighborhood for a fight."
"This galaxy once knelt before us, and it will do so again."

Even the most battle-hardened soldiers pause in her presence for a moment of introspection.
The same spears that catch their food today will defend their homes tomorrow.


Made of bone and boiled in blood, a Rakdos signet is not considered finished until it has been used as a murder weapon.
It was built by the Witch of Lochmere. Most of the wishes it grants are its own.

When the landmarks themselves get up and move, goblin intuition beats any map.
The greatest gift is the opportunity to right one's wrongs.










"To comprehend the full answer requires years of temporal study. In short, they were now never born in the first place."
—Teferi





After their worship of oni began, only a few of Kamigawa's ogres remained in the bitter cold of the Tendo Peaks. Most were drawn to the darkness of Takenuma.

For the Simic Combine, its sigil serves not as an emblem of honor but as a trademark. Its familiar image on any biological commodity attests to superb craftsmanship, ingenious innovation, and higher cost.
"It is the changing of perception that is important."
—Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen
"These lowlands were formed thousands of years ago by behemoth Indath—its final footsteps before vanishing into the sea."
—*Tales of the Ozolith*
"I like goblins. They make funny little popping sounds when they die."
—Braids, dementia summoner
"Fear the dark if you must, but don't mistake sunlight for safety."
—Josu Vess
In a world of bright, cloudless skies, she is the dark storm on the horizon.
The question strained his sanity. The answer snapped it in half.

"Fate is not as fixed as you might think."












"Even when the angels succumbed to madness, Sigarda stood strong. She is hope."


Each path ever charted by an Omenseeker is etched into her eyes.

"Swords cannot reach far enough. Chains cannot strike hard enough. An eternal dilemma, but a simple one."

"Words lie. People lie. The land tells the truth."
It is the forest beyond the horizon, the mountain waiting to be climbed, the new land across the endless sea.
Fog haunts the streets, rendering the familiar as otherworldly, changing neighbors into shadows, and muffling cries for help.


"Flourishing during the Ice Age, these wurms were the bane of all Kjeldorans. Their great size and ferocity made them the subject of countless nightmares—they embodied the worst of the Ice Age."
—*Kjeldor: Ice Civilization*


The most effective way to destroy a spell is to ensure it was never cast in the first place.

No one knew why the spiritmongers were so enraged by Phyrexian technology, but it was a stroke of good luck for the Coalition.

"Many Initiates sacrificed a hand to become full members of the Order."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. II*
"Blood is constant. Every drop I drink, someone must bleed."
—Vradeen, vampire nocturnus
Those suspected of carrying the flayer curse are summarily banished, lest the corruption spread to other Necrons.

"When gods become apathetic, the people will worship anyone who answers their pleas."
—Kiora

"These sorcerers always seem to have another surprise up their sleeves."
—Zur the Enchanter

"It would be disappointing if you were unable to overcome this simplest of defenses. Hilarious, but disappointing."



"Remember to come back in a few years when that fungus has died off. Then we'll see what's in the chest."
—Old Rutstein


Nothing breaks the monotony like a good old-fashioned riot.

Generations of genetic weeding have given rise to the deviously cowardly Ironclaw clan.

The touch of Serra's angels bears hopes aloft and empowers noble causes.

"It was a strange morning. When we awoke, we found our trees transformed. We didn't know whether to water them or polish them."
—Pulan, Bant orchardist


"Death is my life's work."







It's so light and fragile that it can glide where the air is thinnest.
"We spend our entire existence pursuing the joy of our first night's feast."
—Anje Falkenrath
This timeworn relic was responsible for many of Urza's victories, though he never fully comprehended its mystic runes.



Accustomed to battling before an audience in the arena, Iroas's champions know how to put on a good show.

Want all, lose all.
—Zhalfirin aphorism

Upon his return to the capitol after taking soldiers to loot a nearby peaceful town, the prime minister, Dong Zhou, boasted of it as a victory over bandits.
To hone swords and dull minds.
—Whetstone inscription

To look upon one is to surrender every last shred of self-will.
"First, you must fight among the rank and file. It is there I will discern your skills as a leader."
—Aurelia, to Gideon Jura
The masks float downstream toward the Mirrorlake, where faces arise to wear them.
Masters of the arcane savor a delicious irony. Their study of deep and complex arcana leads to such a simple end: the ability to say merely yes or no.

"We meet again, pyromancer."
—Baral, Chief of Compliance
Some tides need no moon.


Doing something at the last minute isn't so bad when you can make that minute last.
"When I look around, I see a world defined by patterns that still manages to defy them."
—Kianne, Quandrix dean

We want no proofs; we ask none to believe us! This boy will some day know what a brave and gallant woman his mother is.
"There are as many pillows of illusion as flakes in a snow-storm. We wake from one dream into another dream."
—Ralph Waldo Emerson, "Illusions"




Some timelines forever fray, branch, and intermingle. Others end abruptly.
They often perch on street lamps, causing the poles to buckle under their weight.
So many candles. So many flammables. So little time.
"Which would you like first, the insult or the injury?"
"Step 1: Put the pests in mud.
"Step 2: Wait."
—*Gyome's Guide to Pest Breeding*
"Look deep into the Grail, and see there what you desire most."
—Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen


Travelers in these waters leave a bit of themselves behind.


His aim is as sure as a mosquito's sting, but with none of the warning.




There was no witty retort, no confident boast to accompany the attack. There was only pain.
"When the Prime Speaker goes too far, I will be here in the safety of the deeps to correct her."
—Zegana

The people of the Sun Empire worship the sun in three aspects. Kinjalli is the Wakening Sun, who created humans from clay and baked them in the sun's warmth.
"If there can be no victory, then I will fight forever."
—Koth of the Hammer
Enter with merciful hearts. Exit with battle cries.
First you lose your enemy's trail. Then you lose all sense of direction. Then you hear the growls . . .
"Such sloppy work. Let's unravel it and try again!"
A symbol of ambition in ruthless times.

"I alone am worthy to decide where lighting strikes."
—Hekaton, storm giant king
Rhoxes who live long enough to retire from war lend support with their extensive knowledge of combat injuries.
"Our ambition drives us forward. Together we will claim what is ours, no matter who holds it."
Some quick dagger work and then back to the sea—that's the Saprazzan way.

No more shall the righteous cower before evil.
"The horizon is the perpetual ideal, the constant promise of hope."
—Nissa Revane
"Gold without freedom might as well be lead."
—Angrath

"The best way to learn from a book on pyromancy is to burn it."
—Jaya Ballard

If you stare at the sun for too long, you'll lose your ability to see clearly.
"After his death, monks spent ten years transcribing the tattoos from Reki's body and gathering stories from those who spoke with him. Thus the volume you hold was written."
—*The History of Kamigawa*
Jund has little necromancy. Instead, the flesh of its dead gives rise to algal fiends.
If only every message were as perfect as its bearer.



"I like to think Kytheon keeps watch over all of us."


Beauty is in the eye of the exploder.


Brushing hair against your face
It knows what makes you tick. It knows how to make the ticking stop.

Some time rifts didn't take away the people but just the ground they stood on.




"They're beasts! What are they going to do, bomb us from orbit?"
—Platoon Commander Cyrus Jalili, Prandium Defense Auxilia
Murky Otarian tides hide the forgotten treacheries of the Phyrexian war.




"The true dishonor for a soldier is surviving the war."
—Telim'Tor


Kor have no concept of exploration. They return to homelands forgotten.

Many horrors take the bait of brave elf volunteers walking alone, only to fall to the blades of rescuers lurking nearby.
"Kill them all and feed them to the new recruits."
—Crovax


"Now is the hour. Ours is the duty. For victory and family—charge!"


A kami's anger never fades, never sleeps, never loosens its grasp.
Healers ultimately acquire the divine gifts of spiritual and physical wholeness. The most devout are also granted the ability to pass physical wholeness on to others.
Once, the order of the Closed Fist reached throughout the Kb'Briann Highlands. Now, Jerrard alone remains to uphold their standard.







"Graveyards are sacrilege! A waste of perfectly good bones."
—Keren-Dur, necromancer lord

He twists the laws of nature until they scream.



The line between dream and death is gauzy and fragile. She leads those too near it from one side to the other.



Kolaghan has no lasting home, but her disciples leave relics to mark her conquests.


Even the clouds became a field of battle. Known as the Sky Theater, it saw the Eternals clash with squadrons of angels.
The bounty on its head is as old as Skysail, but no one has ever tried to collect.

Its beak rends flesh and bone, exposing the tender marrow of dream.
"Direct confrontation never was to the Orcs' taste."
—General Varchild
"We speak the dragons' language of flame and rage. They speak our language of fury and honor. Together we shall weave a tale of destruction without equal."




"Fynn climbed the highest peak and waited, still and silent, until the falling snow had hidden him entirely. When the great eagle flew past, the hunter's aim was true."
—*Saga of the Wisdom Seeker*


"Death tried to uncrown me. But now I return, king of a greater realm."


They say lava conquers all.
"For my confession they burned me with fire And found that I was for endurance made." —*The Arabian Nights*, trans. Haddawy



Opening like the maw of a hellion, the earth swallowed the traveler whole.
Once heard, the battle song of an angel becomes part of the listener forever.
"Beauty to the eye does not always translate to the touch."
—Naimah, Femeref philosopher
"Look at her, once filled with innocence. Death has a way of wringing away such . . . deficiencies."
—Savra


"Survival rule 782: There are *always* more scute bugs."
—Zurdi, goblin shortcutter

The thrulls bred at a terrifying pace. In the end, they overwhelmed the Order of the Ebon Hand.

One pirate's wreck is another's reward.
"Keep your herons and shrews! You will find nothing in the moon, for the moon is a lie! It has told me so!"
The Moriok call the black moon the Whisperer. At her apex, she whispers of power.

If you stop to listen, you can hear it grow.
"Even your shadow is too foul to tolerate."
"What need have I for cavalry when I can have horse and rider both in one?"
—Jolrael
Elves search for sources of beauty in a nighted world. Meanwhile, the nighted world searches for the blood of elves.


A kithkin's worst enemy is solitude.
"Knowledge is the universal currency of the Multiverse. It is power. It is freedom. It is possibility itself."

"Your first mistake was thinking I would let you live long enough to make a second."
—Sarnvax, Gitaxian sective
"Do not flinch from studying the horrors of the past. History's most important lessons are cloaked in terror and tragedy."
—Augusta, Lorehold dean





Part metal, part bone, and all death.
The knights were halfway through their precombat rites before they realized the foul brute meant to start without them.

"I know how this one feels," said Urza. "It's not like others of its kind and has been shunned for its differences."
It harmonizes with the essence of its master.
Those who displease Oona soon learn the extent of the armies she commands.

"Bet you can't put it through the eye."
"Left or right?"
He's the unlife of the party.


Was it just lonely, or was some form of evolution inevitable?





A wall built from the bodies of the enemy will never lack building material in times of war.
Iroas and Mogis are as different in appearance as they are in personality.



"A grudge is a tattoo worn on the inside."
—Setessan warrior saying

Few know her face, but everyone knows her work.
"There will come soft rains, and spring shall be amongst us, a welcome friend."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran Priest

"For what are leaves but countless blades To fight a countless foe on high."
—Elvish hymn
An end to reason, an end to order. Forget all that has been.
"The ship spinning out of control was spot-on, but no one shouting, 'Nebula! You fell asleep again!' or openly weeping? Too unrealistic."
—Captain Rex Nebula
"He is Yawgmoth's reward to me. I shall kill him a hundred times a day."
—Crovax, to Ertai


"Let the flames ignore the sinless."

"I've never known dryads to suffer visitors in their woods. Beware the Ulvenwald when she welcomes you."
—Alena, trapper of Kessig
"Fear not. Your life will not go unlived."
The door to her home survived the fires of the Malignus. Now it's her greatest weapon.



The prince consort was happy to let Yotia's coffers fund his extravagant research.



"A leader can inspire courage, but it is the smiths and healers who truly keep hope alive."
—Thalia, heretic cathar
Abzan soldiers march to war confident that their Houses march with them.


Zhou Yu, Sun Ce, and other famous generals feigned their deaths in order to later surprise their opponents.

"Next!"





"Slivers are guided only by simple instinct. Advance the hive, and you will be welcomed. Impede the hive, and you will face unrelenting opposition."
—Freyalise
"Serve me, and live forever."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
Xorns are native to the Elemental Plane of Earth, where gems and rare stones are plentiful. When summoned elsewhere they can be quite destructive in search of food.


"If I were you, I'd check that elf's coat. I saw him slipping something into his pocket just before you arrived."
—Krandal, freelance instigator


Mystery lies beneath the haunting mists. Never stay where obscurity deepens.
"In the assassination trade, no one lives to make more than one mistake."
—Anhelo, the Painter

"The first wind of ascension is Forger, burning away impurity."
—*Keld Triumphant*
The old Vec tell tales of a beast that fed on scraps but turned its nose up at the lavish banquet they set in its honor.


"Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks! rage! blow!"
—William Shakespeare, King Lear
Lightning reflexes, thunderous might.


It drains vitality from those it touches.
Renegades do some of their best work right under the Consulate's nose.
"It was full of fire and smoke and light and . . . it drove between us and the Efrafans like a thousand thunderstorms with lightning."
—Richard Adams, *Watership Down*


A skilled decoy can throw your enemies off your trail. A master decoy can survive to do it again.

Loitering is not only illegal but unwise, since those who stay too long in one place are apt to be stepped on.
"Heed my words, traveler. Plagues, war, desolation . . . all mere hints of what is yet to come from Dominaria's vault of horrors."




Aether shapes everything on Kaladesh, from the sky to the sea.
"You burn. I'll pillage."




Its pulsating cry shatters bonds of iron, granite, and servitude.
"Illusion is a crutch for those with no grounding in reality."
—Cho-Manno
No more shall the righteous cower before evil.
"Straight from the blood-drenched imagination of our illustrious parun!"
—Nyoser, Gore-House ringleader



In the moment before her execution, she realized what it meant to be a pyromancer, to be alive, to be Chandra.
Every ancient relic is a weapon if you throw it hard enough.
It readily attacks much larger prey, knowing retaliation is impossible.
It manifests at wizard academies to siphon inspiration from young prodigies.


"I use maps to find out where explorers have already been. Then I go the other way."
—Javad Nasrin, Ondu relic hunter
"The heroes of the past nourish our spirits by their example—and nourish our crops by their decay."
—Jeddeg, philosopher of graves
"Obsession is Zur's one flaw as a magic user. His total preoccupation with immortality has become an affliction for his otherwise brilliant mind."
—Jodah, Archmage Eternal

"They appreciate my handiwork. I hear their joy in every scream."
—Chainer, dementia master

"Remember all the great heroes who were careful and never did anything risky? Me neither."
—Syr Carah, the Bold
"I once had an entire race killed just to listen to the rattling of their dried bones as I waded through them."
—Volrath



In times of infestation and war, Zendikar favors the blades that strike in unison.
"It's natural, it's all around us, and it's there for the taking. Just try and tell me what I'm doing is wrong."



"The spread of evil's destruction shall always be matched by the rise of the noble fallen."


"Size alone does not guarantee survival."
—Vorinclex, Voice of Hunger

"Show them what it means to be the source of nightmares!"
—Ulrich, Krallenhorde alpha

When necessary, myr can override and control any artificial object, as can their creator.


His crime was silence, and now he suffers it eternally.
In matters of life and death, he trusts his gut.

Because of their capricious nature, faeries can serve as living lenses for disruptive magic.
Where fickle form meets lasting loyalty.





"Rise, and I will show you how to run without flagging, fight without raging, and fly without wings."
"Your flesh is unprepared for my gifts."
A talented apprentice makes all things. The master makes all things possible.


"You can join me or feed me. Choose fast."

Such cloaks are in high demand both by assassins and by those who fear them.

"I wrecked your metal guy, boss. But look! I made you an ashtray."
"With the completion of each joyous task, we are closer to Yawgmoth's divine vision."
—Stronghold architect, journal


"The fatal flaw in every plan is the assumption that you know more than your enemy."
—Volrath

"What is mana but possibility, an idea not yet given form?"
—Jhoira, master artificer
It harnesses the power of night in a land where daylight fears to show itself.
"Superior force meets woefully inadequate object. What paradox were you expecting?"
—Azguri, archmage of Evos Isle

Her hunger for power consumes what the fire cannot.


There is always a toll to pay for passage.

Just hope yours isn't full of coal golems.
The number printed on the card is no longer in service. For help, go to wizards.custhelp.com or find us on Twitter @Wizards_Help.
And yea he doth spake: "Let there be Magic."




As the Simic released more of their krasis experiments, they required new habitats, always at the expense of the locals.



Abandon not your faith when others abandon you.
The evidence was overwhelming. Tovolar's howlpack was getting bolder, smarter, and stronger.
"New growth applies a healing poultice to wounds long scabbed over."
Memory is a burden that wears at the soul as weather wears at stone.

"Until my last breath, I will defend the realm."

Kothophed bestowed upon Liliana eternal youth, carved into her skin as intricate tattoos.


The nauseating wriggling of a saproling is exceeded only by the nauseating wriggling of its prey.

"By tradition, we don't speak for two days after battle. If our deeds won't speak for themselves, what else could be said?"


"A good deal of tyranny goes by the name of protection."
—Crystal Eastman, "Equality or Protection"
"It's as strong as you believe it is, and it's very convincing."
—Jace Beleren


Dromoka's followers forsake blood ties so that they may join a greater family.
Æther portals drift across Mirrodin's surface, dragging creatures across time and space.



"Salvation will not be granted by the Lunarch Council. It must be earned—at the edge of a sword, if necessary."
Some samurai fell so far out of grace that only dogs would keep them company.
In nature, not a single bone or scrap of flesh goes to waste.
"We train for the improbable, like lightning striking the same place twice, or striking everywhere at once."
—Nundari, Sea Gate militia captain
A single festercreep isn't alone. It's already an infestation.

"The jeweler, the potter, the smith . . . They all imbue a bit of their souls into their creations. The kami destroy that crafted mortal shell and absorb the soul within."
—Noboru, master kitemaker
"Here's how ya win. Don't let the other guy hit back first."
—Jula, goblin raider
Dominaria erodes with each passing gust.

"If a boggart even dares breathe near one of my kin, I'll know. And I'll not be happy."
"To truly know something, you must become it. The trick is to not lose yourself in the process."
"Here in Fyndhorn, where Freyalise's power is strongest, the forest has its own opinion."
—Laina of the Elvish Council



The lion's only loyalty is to its hunger.
Jund is a world as cruel as those who call it home. Their brutal struggles scar the land even as it carves them in its image, a vicious circle spiraling out of control.
The stench in the hovel was overpowering; something loathsome was cooking. Occasionally something surfaced in the thick paste, but my host would casually push it down before I could make out what it was.

"Currents are currents, whether in sea or sky."


Little agonies pave the way to greater power.
"Rage is not the answer. Rage followed by fitting vengeance is the answer."
—Ajani
"The only 'art' these beasts possess is the art of noise!"
—Jaya Ballard
"The academy educates; I employ. It's a perfect arrangement."
—Gatha, Tolarian renegade
When the Boros Legion attacks, swiftblades enter the fray first. They pick off the archers and mages, softening the enemy front before the flame-kin and giants go in.
"For the life of every plane, I will keep watch."


"Dragons are feared for their breath and their bite, but it is their wings that make them unconquerable. Bring them to earth, and they die like any other beast."
—Kassur, Sultai hunter

"The shortest path between two points is not always the safest."
—Tamina, district guide
The only thing that flies over the Krosan Forest is the wind.
"Kor armorers buy the scales and claws. Elf oracles buy the rest."
—Nablus, North Hada trapper
The first line of defense, and the last person you want to anger.
"Why do you weep for the dead? I rejoice, for they have died for me."
—Fallen angel, to Serra
"Every death has a web of consequences. Our job is to find the spider."

"Don't just have an idea—have all of them."
—Niv-Mizzet

"You're not so special, Karn. Anything that has been assembled can be disassembled."



Even the noblest of intentions and strongest of wills inevitably crumble into dust.
"Tilonalli's searing rays carry the spark of life's eventual destruction as all light fades."
—Chitlati, Lightning Rider

His prowess gives the guildless hope that they can hold out against tyranny.
Orzhov vampires look for allies in unlikely places in case their new guildmaster turns on them. The fate of the Obzedat is proof of Kaya's power and her hatred of the living dead.


As the dawns break, the manta soars.





"The end is justified in being mean. Or something like that."

"You were keen enough to sink your fangs into us, vampire! And now you're afraid of a few little nibbles?"
—Udvil "Ratty" Ratlock

"Always a welcome sight breaking through the clouds."
—Talrand, sky summoner
He spent his life searching for the Locked Tome of Eremil. In the end, his mind held together just long enough to decipher a single word.


When the forests became havens for evil, the archmages devised new ways to cleanse the wilds.



Some of Orzhov's cruelest collectors remember their debtors by taste alone.







"How can we outrun the sky?"
—Hadran, sunseeder of Naya




It pairs a long neck with a short temper.






Kolaghan archers are trained in Dakla, the way of the bow. They utilize their dragonlord's lightning to strike their target, no matter how small, how fast, or how far away.
"I would die a thousand deaths before I let you harm another."


"She'll only fly once. Make it count!"



"There are intriguing similarities between the Order and Icatia's Leitbur religion, suggesting the two had a common origin."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. VI*
"I am not at liberty to reveal my sources, but I can assure you, the price on your head is high."
"Civilization is fertilizer."
—Garruk Wildspeaker
"Serves you right for rushing ahead."
—Kaliea, Sea Gate trapfinder

"We trust in the scalelords, bringers of justice that none can escape."
—Urdnan, Dromoka warrior
Kaya had stalked countless horrific foes, but never one that killed with such callous precision and twisted creativity.




"I'll fight no more just for the honor of dying. The afterlife will have to wait."

"To this day, I have no idea if the heavens were obeying him or attacking him."
—Ral Zarek, research notes



A mother only a child could love.

"Some believe sandstalkers to be illusions; those with scars know better."
—*Zhalfirin Guide to the Desert*

The fatal flaw in every plan is the assumption that you know more than your enemy.
She sold her soul to four demons for powerful gifts.
A cunning strategist, Cao Ren tricked Zhou Yu by letting him enter Nanjun. Zhou Yu thought he was capturing the city until Cao Ren's arrows rained down upon him.

"The echo of silence is music to my ears."





When Lorthos emerges from his deepwater realm, the tides bow to his will and the coastline cowers in his presence.
Out of sight, into mind.

"Fire is my accomplice. For enough coin, it can be yours as well."

At first, vedalken observers thought blinkmoths naturally avoided certain places. Then they realized those places were frogmite feeding grounds.

"He has been to the heart of the wood. Did you truly expect to wield power over him?"
—Oakhide druid

Its wings produce a high-pitched, barely audible whirring sound in flight. Only Jeskai masters are quiet enough to hear one coming.

"Obey!"

Its flight sets the sky itself on fire.
"Life grows everywhere. My kin merely find those places where it grows strongest."
—Nissa Revane
Driven by an insatiable hunger, gremlins never cease feeding. They can destroy a lifetime of work in just a few moments.

Never flinch. Never falter. Never fear.
"We will fight as they do: our flesh protected behind metal."
—Tae Aquil, Viridian weaponsmith

The brothers' rivalry escalated into all-out enmity, and Tocasia paid the price.










A sickness stirs in its eyes, a nightmare born in darkened wails.


Devils redecorate every room with fire.
"True strength is in the mind, for the body is too malleable a form."
—Politus, vedalken emisar

There are those who draw false comparisons between the tech-magi of the Adeptus Mechanicus and the xenotechnologists of the necron race. There can be no mercy for such heretics.



Before a woman marries in the village of Sursi, she must visit the land of the Mesa Pegasus. Legend has it that if the woman is pure of heart and her love is true, a Mesa Pegasus will appear, blessing her family with long life and good fortune.
The undisputed master of the mountains of Shiv.
Thanks to the magic in his Writ of Passage, alms beasts lumbered aside, anarchs bowed their heads, and even Rakdos acrobats rolled their spikewheels out of his way.

"Some hid from the storm. I embraced it and learned its name."
Heavier than it looks, tricky to wield, guaranteed to last.
"Um . . . oh . . . what was I saying?"
—Reveka, wizard savant

Unable to settle on just one design, Urza decided to create one versatile being.
Ghirapur's most celebrated inventors have been immortalized in clockwork.
"Your strategy is marvelous. I've just made a few minor adjustments."
—Veris, watcher of Indi Keep
He loved his cities in the clouds. When he traveled to the lands below, he brought many reminders of his home.
"The secret entrance should be near."




He didn't have a word for "home," but he knew it was something to be defended.
Its lock changes to fit each key.

Three little goblins, enjoying their brew. One bumped an ogre, and then there were two.


Some kami attacks during the war were rife with trickery, subterfuge, and subtlety, draining hope and pride from the mortal world. Other attacks were a lot more straightforward.

"Beware an eddy where there should be none or a stretch that flows too fast or too slow."
—Old Fishbones, Martyne river guide
You don't so much hire goblins as put ideas in their heads.


"Places, everyone!"
—Judith
"Glory was gone; Glory was everywhere."
—*Scroll of Beginnings*


"I've stood by Mishra's side from the beginning. I will not abandon him now."
Midwife to mothers and leader to all.


"I see something special in you—a bright ember that yearns to dance among the stars."

Finders, keepers.

Even the most conservative generals revised their tactics after the Battle of Sarinth, during which a handful of peasant-pikemen held off a trio of rampaging craw wurms.




"A realm once green now ruled by Frost, Where flesh and field both pay its cost. Those dearly loved, forever lost . . ."
—*The Dynasty of Winter Kings*

"There are some places even our ships cannot travel. I would know their secrets too."
—Inga Rune-Eyes
"You can face any danger when all of nature is on your side."


"Souls are volatile things. When compressed and loaded into a handheld device, their destructive potential is quite impressive."
—Dierk, geistmage


Their arrows are tipped with basilisk eyes and fletched with cockatrice feathers.

"The perfection of the lotus reminds me of my hopes for this world . . . and my failures. I will not rest until I've atoned for them."
—Karn
"Bant sentries were called the Angel Line. They never faltered, and they were ready to die defending their position."
—Elspeth
Tan grácil como el ciervo saltando el arroyo y tan mortal como el lobo emboscando del otro lado, los guerreros élficos son los ojos del bosque al igual que sus garras desnudas.


"WE ARE FILLED WITH TICKETS. WE ARE FILLED WITH PURPOSE."

His mind whirled with grand plans, never thinking of what might happen if he were to succeed.

The priests plead for your anguish and pray for your despair.




"The more secrets you have, the more easily you become my pawn."
"That one's not mine. Run!"
—Nissa Revane

Griselbrand's defeat did not mark the end of the Skirsdag cult. They simply turned their worship to the next demon to emerge from the shadows bearing offers of power.

When Zhuge Jin proposed the marriage of Guan Yu's daugher and Sun Quan's heir, Guan Yu's arrogant refusal led to disaster.


Welcome to the club.

"They have forsaken their vows. The edict of the Circle demands their voices be silenced."
—Syr Tasdale, knight of Ardenvale

Anyone who thinks merrows have more brains than brawn has never been run over by one.
"So they want to kill my men? Well two can play at that game."
—General Khurzog
A good memory is no match for a good scribe.
Devils sow chaos and reap panic.


Crian's patrols afford him plenty of opportunity to take potshots at the "dirtwalkers" far below.
Nothing is funnier to a devil than setting someone—anyone—on fire.



A mana well as bottomless as the myr are tireless.




"Sure, you know the law. But I know the streets."
Kor have no concept of exploration. They return to homelands forgotten.




"Try not to look guilty. Or delicious."
—Thorpe, street urchin




Its fury sets the clouds alight.
"The numbers of Nyxborn among us have swelled. Is this a sign of the gods' favor, or does it portend something else?"






Countless delights drift on the surface while dark schemes run below.



The only thing it likes more than discovering a pit of bones is adding to it.
Untold riches await those who forsake the bustling world to search the secret, silent places.

"There is power in abandon, but far more in control."
—Warden Hixus, to Kytheon
An overwhelming sense of calm accompanies the gryffs that wheel above the roofs of Gavony.
"Who am I to break up a family?"
—Gisa the Mad
Messenger, weapon, friend.
"The fiends have fled. Well, good riddance. Nothing I like more than an empty lair."
"Proximity discouraged. Do not approach."
—Vulshok field guide
"Wars are decided one life at a time."
—Gvar Barzeel, Kolaghan warrior

"Eternal life or your money back."
—Unnamed Suq'Ata merchant, deceased


"Whatever hatred destroys, a single act of trust can revive."
Students who seek river herbs in Doradur quickly find themselves slightly damp and thoroughly surrounded.
Cast out of the Conclave generations ago, these elves found a home in the corrupted districts of the Golgari.
"The only action worth taking is one with an unknown outcome."



Even more than carrion, they crave the last words of the dying.

"Only a necromancer would create such a foul form of divination."
—Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen
"You cannot be an Ojutai monk. They prize wisdom and skill, and you have neither."
—Siara, the Dragon's Mouth

The Iron League prides itself on its metal-shaping techniques.
Its curve mimics the twists of life and death.


Secure in the embrace of wood, they want no part of Eladamri's war.
The nightmare arises from its lair in the swamps. As the poisoned land spreads, so does the nightmare's rage and terrifying strength.


When the meek charge into battle, courage becomes infectious.

The bones of doomed ships jut out from the muck while the bones of their sailors molder below.
The continent of Murasa lies beneath a blanket of dense vegetation, its enormous branches tangled so thickly that some inhabitants never see the ground.
One offering to appease her on her arrival. Another to celebrate her departure.






The air was filled with the cracks and snaps of flesh hardening as the new sliver joined the battle.
"I was wrong. Zendikar isn't after me. It isn't after any of us. It's not evil or vengeful. It's magnificent . . . but it's in pain."
—Nissa Revane
"As Terisiare's mines ran dry, scrap metal became increasingly plentiful."
—*The Antiquities War*

"They're not easily trained. Fortunately, they already know how to kill."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain
". . . And at his passing, the bodies of the world's great warriors shall rise from their graves and follow him to battle." —*The Anvilonian Grimoire*


"If Heaven has placed it in your hands, it means that the throne is destined to be yours."

Frozen is frozen, whether it's with cold, terror, or both.
She walks in the twilight, her steps make no sound,/ Her feet leave no tracks on the dew-covered ground./ Her hand gently beckons, she whispers your name—/ But those who go with her are never the same.

It is best to conquer dragons before they hatch.
—Femeref adage
The cave floods with light. A thousand rays shine forth and meld into one.
"The days before the war were filled with strange portents: scouts and herders spoke of villages reduced to ash, of farmers taken from their fields, and of foul beasts roaming the plains in packs. I know, for I spoke to them all."
—Hakim, Loreweaver



"It is done."
—Elspeth


Even when the flesh grows cold, knowledge waits in the bones for a master to release it.
"The Boros Legion always stands for justice, but it never stands alone."
In the cloudy skies and dim light of autumn, a flash of white wings is a reminder that better times lie ahead.

The Minotaurs of the Hurloon Mountains are known for their love of battle. They are also known for their hymns to the dead, sung for friend and foe alike. These hymns can last for days, filling the mountain valleys with their low, haunting sounds.


"Quick, Rhirhok—teach me to swim!"
—Makht, goblin casualty
She turns ash into flame and burns enemies to ash.

"If you kids don't stop that racket, I'm turning this expedition around *right now!*"
"Fire. Air. Water. These elements spread, filling in the spaces they are not. But earth is implacable like a sullen child."
—Jestus Dreya, *Of Elements and Eternity*

In the stronghold's dungeons, the shadows hide in the vermin.




He remembers a past of light and healing. But he lives the bitter present—parching salt, scouring wind, and the withering heat of the desert.
Benalish citizens born under the same constellations share a star-clan. Their loyalty to one another interlaces the Seven Houses.
"Ready . . . uh . . . fire!"


"Shiv may be surrounded by water, but the mountains go far deeper."
—Fire Eye, viashino bey

"I see all things as they truly are! I see . . . decay in all flesh, and betrayal in every heart."



Reach out and torch someone.


"Don't come back until you've got brains in your teeth."


"Sometimes it forgets to loosen its grip before taking flight. I lost my roof that way."
—Ecaban, Boros scout





Some timelines forever fray, branch, and intermingle. Others end abruptly.
"Water is like breathing—necessary for life."
—Asmira, Holy Avenger
"Knowledge is the greatest virtue@-with the courage to apply it."
@-Rowan and Will Kenrith
Nothing is sacred to the undead—not even their own kind.

Count carefully the souls and see that none are lost.
—Vec teaching
Call it the thinking mage's version of brute force.

"Why do you weep for the dead? I rejoice, for they have died for me."
Among the boggarts, there is only one real rule: all new treasures and experiences must be shared. Those who hoard their gifts commit the one truly unforgivable sin.
Follow the light. In its absence, follow her.


Every creature of the forest has a name, and she knows them all.
A single drop turns skin to scale and fist to claw.


The experiments decided to perform some research of their own.


Warning to those who scale the cliffs without paying tribute: It's a long way down.




"How can you accuse me of evil? Though these deeds be unsavory, no one will argue: good shall follow from them."

His mind knows no fear, registering only the burning impulse to destroy.
"I was going to suggest silver, but a beam of pure angelic fury works even better."
—Rem Karolus, Fiendslayer

"Anybody want some . . . *toast*?"
—Jaya Ballard, Task Mage

"Change your mind, or I'll change it for you."

"Aether is the soul of Kaladesh, and all souls should be free."
"You lived for Serra's love. Will you not die for it?"
"Did you have a nice nap?"
—Liliana Vess




Rumors float through the city like crows, alighting on citizens seemingly at random.
"The path of the stars is as reliable as the instruments that measure them."




"When weapons of war are repurposed for peaceful ends, you know society has advanced."
—Jodah

It glides around the city, a sublime combination of elegance and utility.
It glides through the shadows until it reaches yours.
"Behind the eyelids, a flickering flame. Beneath the dream, a flickering sorrow. Can peace find you in this sleep When all the world is tossed by war?"
—Snow-Fur, kitsune poet
"Our forebears once flew like this—carefree, needing nothing but a warm nest and a full belly. Our intellect may be more burden than blessing."
—Commander Eesha
With five lenses on its "head," it sees the world in a range of colors beyond ordinary perception.

When the cat flies and the bird stalks, guard your horses carefully.
"Unimaginable riches? I assure you, I have a *vivid* imagination."




"Our victory must come from all of Dominaria, or it will not come."
—Urza

"It reflects the purity of Mirrodin-that-was."
—Koth of the Hammer
"Nothing is the same anymore. The forests are not as lush, the waters not as pure, the air not as clear. Without the kami to direct and sustain the forces of nature, it's only a matter of time before we feel their neglect."

"This wasteful design cannot possibly be Phyrexian."
—Belbe
"Though the road through Raugrin is lined with alarm crystals, some monsters seem to be adapting. We've had raptors feigning attacks on provision caravans, while others try to sneak through the lava curtain."
—Dol, Lavabrink quartermaster

A pet that can hunt both flesh and spirit is precious in a place where smiling assassins keep company with ghostly shadows.
"Hail the Children of the Stars!"
—Magus Lucea Kane




Life is a show, and death its final performance.
Beware the fine print.
Gron's mind reeled with possibilities, most of which are best left unmentioned.
Benalia was only the first nation victimized by Tsabo Tavoc's specialized killers.
One bone broken for every twig snapped underfoot.
—Llanowar penalty for trespassing
Death in form and function.
"Roots find their way through rock, and even mountains must give way to new growth."
—Nissa Revane
"The blazekite is a simple concept, really—just a vehicular application of dragscoop ionics and electropropulsion magnetronics."
—Juzba, Izzet tinker
Malice is appropriate when vengeance is called for.

Some protection requires a bit of finesse.
Citizens of Ravnica stick to the main streets. Shortcuts may look tempting, but down each alley, dozens of hungry hands await, and screams do not carry into the busy market throng.
"Such fuss over machines, Gerrard. Remember that you are the prize of the Legacy. Throw away your toys!"
—Orim, Samite healer



Its stench corrodes steel. Its miasma sickens angels. Its finality ends hope.
Storms in Lorwyn don't patter on village rooftops, but rather drench the clachan in rays of amber light.
"Femeref was guided by the wisdom of the Council of Voices. But in one terrible instant, they were slain, leaving Asmira as the sole voice of leadership."
—Hakim, Loreweaver

"Retainer of eternal Sun! Life flash again upon thy wings."
—"Song to the Sun," Femeref song
Hanging on the walls of his lair, the fallen halos cast his depravity in everlasting light.

Don't be fooled by their looks. Think of them as little knives with wings.

"My enemy's hatred is his weakness. My enemy's anger is my strength."
—Remin, venerable monk
Tawnos brings a childlike wonder and an inherent skill to Urza's studio and bridges the wizardry of the workshop with the grandeur of the royal court. His speed and flexibility quickly earned him promotion from apprentice to master artificer.

"I hope it's true that every snowflake is unique, because I never want to see one like this again. Now clean up that body."
—Thangbrand Gyrdsson, Kjeldoran patrol
The trees have ears, eyes, and teeth.

In Embraal, inventor gangs defend their turf with ingenious devices and blunt objects.



"The more I see of this place, the less I want to."
—Chandra Nalaar

"I never liked you. Now get up—we have a fight to finish."

It brings belligerence to new heights.


Devil-blades and dripping blood make music Rakdos never tires of hearing.

"Burn them from the sky."
—Varragoth


"You have to admit, Gideon—he has great form."
—Liliana Vess


"Bring me an angel feather, and I will give you one death in return. There can be no turning back once the candle is lit."
—Whisper, blood liturgist
Oona's song is like a twisted dinner chime. All the faeries return home, but it is Oona who feasts—on the stolen dreams and rumors they serve her.


"Yes, she is made of pure belief—but I hardly see why that makes her unique."
—Reith, master illusionist

"I want it to look me in the eyes and know the face of the man who put it down."
—Kelsien, the Plague
"I know the nightmares of Indatha seem scary, but when you break them down into their component parts, they're quite beautiful."
—Naireh, Ketria elementalist
"On vile wings and bloody wind, the swarm will rise."
—Skyclave inscription

"Nothing endures but change."
—Heraclitus
"The best experiments are those whose successes replicate themselves."
—Yolov, Simic bioengineer
Empires rise and fall, but evil is eternal.
"Not all paths are found on the forest floor."
The wisdom of the past is written on the bones of ancients.

"The undead are not 'awakened.' They are evicted when there is no room left in the pit for more bodies."


Sunhome—the stalwart shield, the towering sentinel, the seat of justice.
Most human scholars believe that merfolk are the survivors of sunken Atlantis, humans adapted to the water. Merfolk, however, believe that humans sprang forth from merfolk who adapted themselves in order to explore their last frontier.

Godo never revealed what went into his special brew, but he always had more of it after great victories.

Jolrael's choice of homes was far better than her choice of allies.
Each flower identical, every leaf and petal disturbingly exact.
The elf's blade carved deep into the Eldrazi drone's fleshy lattices. Without a sound, the drone lost equilibrium and tumbled from the sky.



When the winds blow out of the abyss, death is the only harvest.
When defeat is near and guidance is scarce, all eyes look in one direction.

"You are beneath contempt. Your lineage will be forgotten."
While armies battled across Jamuraa, beasts stalked the high places looking for victims.



"Our volleys don't aim to kill. Impair them and the ground will do the rest."
—Alux, Skysail defender




"If we cannot live proudly, we die so!"
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves

After five thousand years, the nightmare returned.

"As long as I pull the strings, you will dance."
—Tezzeret
Through years of study and training, the Blacksmiths of Argive became adept at reassembling the mangled remains of the strange, mechanical creatures abounding in their native land.
"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim."
—Sisay, captain of the *Weatherlight*


"Within minutes, the strange device was indistinguishable from the other on my workbench."
—Tocasia, journal entry


Its fangs are in your flesh before its hiss leaves your ears.





"Your first reaction may be to stand very still and hope she didn't see you. Trust me, she did."
—Endril, Kalonian naturalist
Soldiers will always endanger their lives to defend many other lives.










On Innistrad, Liliana embraced necromancy, honing her powers by practicing on scores of undead—and sometimes the living.
The S.N.E.A.K. Code clearly permits looting corpses for parts. That just meant Agent 47.3 had to make sure her target was dead first.


"We survived the Travails! Killer angels! Horrors from beyond the moon! Now some big werewolves think they can scare us? Let 'em try."
Battle doesn't need a purpose; the battle is its own purpose. You don't ask why a plague spreads or a field burns. Don't ask why I fight.
Weavers' webs wall off swaths of territory more effectively than any portcullis made of iron.










"If that brain can't figure out the secret of the serum, then add more brains."
—Rhmir, Hand of the Augur



"The need for the pack is bred in their bones. Their true strength will not show itself for any other purpose."
—Garruk Wildspeaker
"Well, that's one way to scatter her ashes."
—Calvey, funeral director
Jace awoke to the certainty that he was lost.


She remembers every word spoken, from the hero's oath to the baby's cry.
Intent: Most Esper sphinxes have minimal filigree enhancement, but this sphinx has been extensively enhanced.

"If you believe the God-Pharaoh tests you, charge with me to prove yourself. If you believe he betrayed us all, join with me to fight for tomorrow!"
—Samut, former Tah-crop initiate

The roots run deep under stone and street, with strength that needs but a whisper to awaken.
Members of the Order of Jukai commune with kami to enhance their martial prowess.
"From void evolved Phyrexia. Great Yawgmoth, Father of Machines, saw its perfection. Thus the Grand Evolution began."
—*Phyrexian Scriptures*

"Well, if that goblin didn't want his tongue pierced, he shouldn't have stuck it out at me."




"That is not the voice of the wind singing on the stones."
—Callaphe the mariner
"The cruelest monsters inspire the greatest tales. The greatest tales inspire the cruelest hunters."
—Rielle, the Everwise
A well-chosen word can restore a mind or snap its tethers.

"Oh, it's easy enough to kill, but I'm not going anywhere near it."
—Norin the Wary


The time rifts remind Yavimaya of the enemies of its past and provide fresh fuel for its fires.

"In the drowsy dark cave of the mind, dreams build their nest with fragments dropped from day's caravan."
—Rabindranath Tagore
To protect the alliance between Kjeldor and Yavimaya, they trained in the ways of both.


"I stand for every cobbler, tanner, and fool in this town—and they stand for me."

The pup looked over the treetops, eyeing the man who just yesterday had kicked her. Suddenly, her hunger was infused with pure delight.
"In troubled times, we all need someone to watch our back."
Phenax promised the newly dead souls they would be spared from Erebos. In this, he did not lie.


"Death—an outmoded concept. We sleep, and we change."
—Sitrik, birth priest
Lumengrid, site of the Knowledge Pool, source of vedalken arcana.

"Sit. Fetch. Devastate."
"To trespass so far from home is to ask for a lonesome grave."
The blinding barrier served Benalia better than a hundred shields.
Deathbellow Canyon is home to minotaurs and many other creatures that share a love for the taste of human flesh.
As the struggle raged for control of the Immortal Sun, the world grew dark under a blood-red sky.
"It's high tide."

Many of those entrusted to Primata Delphine's care tended to express themselves with screams.
While Dominarians fought for their world, Rath stole it from under their feet.
Every soldier has a place to stand and a role to play.
"Purge the damned, for they have no place among the righteous!"
—Seeta of Thraben

Its wings disturb more than air.
Those who expect betrayal at every turn are seldom disappointed.

"Control them? No. I gird them in armor and let them loose."
—Yacha, Otepec huntmaster
"Wealth is a good thing, compared to poverty—your food is better, your robes are softer, and your companions have bathed more recently."
—Kukemssa pirate
Fire never dies alone.

"Being all-knowing is a matter of remembering which things it is crucial to forget."
The fastest way across the dunes is above.

Reduction of energy and motion within the stasis field creates the illusion of slowed time.




"Their sharp scales would make good armor, if they'd just stay dead."
—Taeryn, cinder armorkeep

Some timelines forever fray, branch, and intermingle. Others end abruptly.
"Keep your heels down and bend at the hips as your mount takes flight. She'll do the rest."
—Anders, cathar drillmaster
What walks on four legs in the morning, two legs in the afternoon, and three legs in the evening?
"I am weak. Make . . . me . . . ideal."

"The longer it's caged, the madder it gets."
—Firecat handler
"When their community grows cluttered, thallids begin a traditional bobbing dance, then trek out in all directions."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. III*
"Look to the north; there you will find aid and comfort." —The Book of Tal
Wights want the world to resound with echoes of their own cruel hatred.
So-called "battering rams" pale in comparison to the real thing.

On Naya, ambition and treachery are scarce, hunted nearly to extinction by the awe owed to terrestrial gods.

The strider's long, loping gait is an adaptation that allows it to move quickly in deep snow.




Judge's ruling: The interior of the face still counts as the face, so a nose-pick is legitimate grounds for saying "Gotcha!"



"It is our duty to bring the Blessed Sleep to the dead, even if they resist that gift."
—Grete, Order of Saint Traft

Multani's mind grasped for consciousness as rage itself rebuilt his body.

Eternal life brings eternal hunger.
Moggs never volunteer for anything twice.

"It misses nothing and it has no sense of humor."
—Barvisa, courtroom scribe
"Try to pretend like you understand what's important."
"Or, if you prefer, just surrender."
「王から肥料に、できるだけ早く。」
—-退位させる者のグリモワール

"Peace will come only when we have taken Varchild's head."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain


Every branch a crossroads, every vine a swift steed.

"Bet you can't put it through the eye."
"Left or right?"

"You may enter, but leave those lifeless things of your world behind."
—Modruni, maro-sorcerer

The mage entered into a contract with the golden flower. She could wield its considerable power, but all would be lost should a single petal fall.
"That one has a bright future—perfect instincts for the rhythm of mayhem."
—Judith



"That's not exactly what I had in mind when I said 'charge,' but I like your enthusiasm!"
—Balmor, battlemage captain
"How smooth his face, how sure his thoughts. I look forward to breaking his mighty will."
—The Eastern Paladin
Teysa convened the meeting of the Obzedat. Kaya ended it.
The storm rages and the earth breaks.
"I would rather take my own head than be thwarted by a presumptuous wretch with a shield and a dream."
"Feeding a normal army is a problem of logistics. With zombies, it is an asset. Feeding is why they fight. Feeding is why they are feared."
—Jadar, ghoulcaller of Nephalia


Its blood is life. Its body is growth.

"The blood is the life! The blood is the life!"
Necromancers deal in commodities far more precious than gold and grain.
After a hundred failed experiments, Urza was stunned to find that common silver passed through the portal undamaged. He immediately designed a golem made of the metal.


"Who truly runs this city? Look to the sky on hallowed days, and see whose sigil is stamped clearly onto the heavens."
—Vuliev of the Ghost Council



Plant life in the valley changes for the worse as runoff from dwarven forges contaminates the water.
Deep beneath the ruined continent of Otaria, there's a mine where goblins still work, ignorant of the destruction above.
"Basically, we turn a bunch of little lightnings into one big lightning."
One shard of Selenia yet remained.
Occasionally a member of the Institute of Arcane Study acquires a taste for worldly pleasures. Seldom do they have trouble finding employment.







Paladins of the Sanctum Seeker order are an adventurous lot, venturing into the wilds with monstrous mastiffs at their side.


"The Cloud Nacatl sit and think, a bunch of soft paws. We are the Claws of Marisi, stalking, pouncing, drawing blood."
You'll never find an anaconda in a swamp. It will always find you first.

Such cloaks are in high demand both by assassins and by those who fear them.

"How can any human hope to match our skills? We are children of Fyndhorn, and its sap runs in our veins."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter

The Extinguisher's curse lasted long after her departure.
"He has learned much in his long years. And unlike selfish humans, he's willing to share."
—Garruk Wildspeaker
"Beauty to the eye does not always translate to the touch."
—Naimah, Femeref philosopher

Gremlins are loyal to nothing but their next meal.

What doesn't grow, dies. And what dies grows the tarmogoyf.

"With his dream of unification fulfilled, Darien became the last king of Kjeldor. Those who followed were known as the kings of New Argive."
—*Kjeldor: Ice Civilization*

Reach out and torch someone.
If you can see it clearly, you're already on fire.
The Time Spiral goes so fast it causes a paradox. Myra uses this opportunity to sell guests their souvenir photos while they're still waiting to board.

"Focus your mind. Do you hold a piece of the ocean or a thousand drops of rain?"
—Hurkyl
Infinite potential given finite form.

Barrin drowned his doubts about Urza's project by delving ever deeper into its details.
Atarka is worshipped and fed by her subjects at Ayagor, the Dragon's Bowl.

Zendikar is restless.

"The presence of the strong will make you stronger."
—Yeva, Nature's Herald


"Could you please spare some of your blood for my precious little tree?"
Valuing scholarship above all else, the inhabitants of the Ivory Tower reward those who sacrifice power for knowledge.
"We patrol the steppes to keep enemies from the forest verge."
". . . By six offensives from the hills of Qi Kongming sought to change Han's destiny. . . ."

What did you do to the Zero Point?
After a hundred failed experiments, Urza was stunned to find that common silver passed through the portal undamaged. He immediately designed a golem made of the metal.
"These alleys are not safe. Come, I can guide you back to the market square."
"We pass these along to our fellow soldiers to recognize deeds of valor. It won't stay with you for long."
—Alovnek, Boros guildmage
"No person was ever honored for what he received. Honor has been the reward for what he gave."
—Calvin Coolidge
"Because the giant, implacable death lizard wasn't scary enough already."
—Captain Brinely Rage




He wished for growth, but not for a way to control it.

"Our ancestors grew complacent in their divinity, allowing their lessers to topple them. Never again."
Yargle hadn't bargained on her showing up.




Teroh dreams of his enemies' doom.
Summer sends its kiss with warmth and blooming life.
Few among the Azorius have ever spoken with the sphinxes, but all have felt their influence.
"Dreams are fleeting. Reality even more so."
—Oona, queen of the fae



Tawnos learned quickly from Urza that utter simplicity often led to wondrous, yet subtle utility.



"There was a time when our cages rang with wailing. Now only a handful of these whimpering fools remain."



"Once he's got you, hold on. Fall from a drake and you'll suffer much worse than a bruise."
—Garl, drake trainer

Taking control of powerful court positions one by one, eunuchs eventually brought on the fall of the Han dynasty, leading to the chaos of the Three Kingdoms.

"Fire is always dancing, leaping and whirling, seeking more fuel. It never rests, so why should I?"
—Chandra Nalaar
The griffin's shadow gives courage to the righteous and dread to the idle.
Wealthy patriars make up the vast majority of both his victims and his customers.
They fell screaming into the depths of the chasm like so many pebbles tossed down a well.

Once a guardian of Crovax's estate, Selenia was freed from her magical bindings by the wealthy noble. Instead of remaining at his side, the angel chose to venture out into the world. For reasons unknown to Crovax, Selenia now serves the evil Volrath in his home realm of Rath.

"I will go to any length to achieve my goal. Eternal life is worth any sacrifice."
—Zur the Enchanter



"Life is a tournament that rewards the bold."
—Syr Layne, knight of Embereth
"Why pray to the gods, who feed on your worship? Dissolve your illusions and see the true nature of things."
—Xenagos, the Reveler
On the continent of Tazeem, rushing waters plunge through narrow canyons into mist-cloaked lakes.

As the blaze raced toward her, Syr Ameril closed her eyes and pictured Castle Ardenvale so her last thoughts would be of home.
An early inspiration for Urza, Tocasia's Onulets contained magical essences that could be cannibalized after they stopped functioning.

All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.




2018 World Champion Javier Dominguez


Not an arrow loosed, javelin thrown, nor sword raised. None were needed.


"The Reito Massacre was a testament to the kami's unstoppable power. The human defenders might as well have been moths battling a forest fire."
—*Great Battles of Kamigawa*
He knows your strengths, your weaknesses, and the shape of that unfortunate birthmark on your backside.
While it's true most Dragons are cruel, the Shivan Dragon seems to take particular glee in the misery of others, often tormenting its victims much like a cat plays with a mouse before delivering the final blow.

There is an eagerness among the Quiver of Kessig to prove they are the equal of the other cathar orders.
"You have two choices: heed my advice now or need my healing later."
It wails of buried riches and the souls lost seeking them.

The bond between Llanowar elves and their kavu empowers both.

Meant to cut through the body and burn straight to the soul.

His aim is as sure as a mosquito's sting, but with none of the warning.
"The work that went into creating this magnificent specimen. Horrific, deadly, well-balanced. Not all necromancers do elegant work like this."
—Lestin, necromancer
Nomads understand many cultures and therefore travel without fear.
"Werewolves are an unholy mix of a predator's instinct and a human's hatred."
—Alena, trapper of Kessig

"We are kinfolk," explained Karn to the sliver queen. "Just as you need your progeny to complete you, so do I need the pieces of the Legacy to make me whole."

"Begone, moon-cursed! These folk are no prey of yours."
The raging green dragon left destruction—and at least one admirer—in its wake.
"The Brazen Coalition is a firecannon pointed at our enemies. Goblins like him are the spark to its powder."
—Admiral Beckett Brass
Aranghil held her fury in her heart, hard and bright as a ruby. With its razor edge, she rewrote the laws of battle.









"The land promises nothing and keeps its promise."
—Oracle *en*-Vec
"Nice invention there. Looks real fragile."

Suddenly, she couldn't see the acorns for the trees.
Though less well-known than its army of soldiers, the Boros Legion's mage-priests are as respected by the innocent as they are hated by the ghosts of the guilty.
"Sometimes even the smallest boon can save a life."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran Priest




War destroys more than just the land. War destroys hope.


Each note of the flute mimics the call of a different beast.
"You hide your actions from eyes on the ground, but nothing escapes the clouds."

See evil, hear evil, speak evil.


"Our history is one hand reaching out to another."

Maze-runners who pass through the Rakdos gate leave behind their scruples and a significant amount of skin.
"There is nothing so free as the spring river born of winter's ice."
—Nitula, the Hunt Caller
"Will not the mountains quake and hills melt at the coming of the darkness? Share this vision with your enemies, Lim-Dûl, and they shall wither."
—Leshrac, Walker of Night
"In the Hour of Glory, the gods and the untested will prove their worth before the God-Pharaoh."
—*The Accounting of Hours*


Ixidor had only to imagine their ruin and Akroma made it so.
Egbol stared in wonder at Naya's landscape. So much to eat. So much to steal.

"Hi! ni! ya! Behold the man of flint, that's me! Four lightnings zigzag from me, strike and return."
—Navajo war chant


They were master fishers, but their seas are now the streets and their catch, the goblins that run pell-mell from the screeching in the sky.

Chains of leaping fire and sizzling lightning laid waste the artificers' handiwork, sparing not a single device.

Clare realized too late why no one ever took the shortcut through the abandoned mill.
One man's trash is another man's troller.


"In our war Heliod gave mortals some favor, yet other times he withheld aid. Are we still no more than game pieces to him?"
—Polyxene the Doubter



"The dead have it easy. They suffer no more. If breaking their rest helps the living, so be it."
—Olka, mistmeadow witch

Only rumors have ever escaped its web.

"Open the gates, and bid them enter."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer

Drakes prowl the skies of Kaladesh, waiting for the perfect moment to strike.




The true strength of nature is not the raging storm or the charging rhino, but the inexorable vitality of life.
"Run home, cur. I've already taken your master's head. Don't make me thrash you with it."
"Things are going to change around here."
—Crovax
Silverquill's elite know how to offer a scathing rebuttal without uttering a word.
When live specimens aren't readily available, Witherbloom mages make creative use of ragged spirits clinging to long-dead bodies.
"The most resolute soldiers will press forward in the face of overwhelming odds."
—Gideon Jura
"Better the dead depart utterly than be enslaved."

"In these halls there is no pass or fail. Your true test comes with the first full moon."

In a single blinding flash, Yawgmoth was obliterated, and Urza could finally rest.

A true Boros commando only calls for reinforcements so they can clean up the mess.
Riding the goat
—Dwarven expression meaning
"a foolhardy act of bravery"
"Properly installed, each powerstone emits a targeted electromagnetic field that halts momentum as sure as stone."
—*Tome of Obstructions*

"I have no fangs, yet I constantly bite. I have no scales, yet I slither through you. What am I?"
—Riddle of the viper's venom

No one welcomes his visit, yet all must grant him tribute.
For each creature that arrives in its audience, the sage imparts another piece of ancient wisdom for all to hear.
Not every thought is a good one.
Standing between a scythecat and its prey makes you the appetizer.
"I think I used up all my good luck and all my bad luck in the same fall."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*







Only the sun that beats down upon Arashin's walls could shine more brightly.







Every predator is something else's prey.
New insights yield new senses.


It awakened to gloom-fouled skies and responded with a righteous rage that shook the heavens.
The essence of flame to stoke the spirit.



Fire elementals are ruthless infernos, annihilating and consuming their foes in a frenzied holocaust. Crackling and blazing, they sear swift, terrible paths, leaving the land charred and scorched in their wake.





"There hasn't been an original thought on Vesuva in centuries."
—Emmest, Tolarian chronicler


"One vampire for every family member I've lost."
"Few natural forces are as devastating as hunger."
—Kaysa, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order


Watch your step.
"The direst venom becomes a panacea under Pharika's guidance. I bring it to the worthy, clinging at the edge of the abyss."


Gyara Spearhurler would have been renowned for her deadly accuracy, if it weren't for her deadly accuracy.
"Skeletons? You should be so lucky."
—Gisa, to Geralf
"Inspiration is found by looking outward."
—Oviya Pashiri, sage lifecrafter

"Leaves more room for the big ones to fight in, you know."
—Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
Fire never dies alone.



Behind every general who leads from the front is a nervous mage with a spell at the ready.
"Sorry, Great One, but did I hear correctly? I'm to entrust this powerful artifact to our *worst* researchers?"
—Flesdrim, Cabal servant
The lich poured his soul into a new phylactery. True immortality was finally at his fingertips.
"The cathars have their swords, the inquisitors their axes. I prefer the 'diplomatic' approach."
—Terhold, archmage of Drunau


"Zendikar is always angry, though I've never seen that anger so precisely directed."
—Nablus, North Hada trapper


"Fools dig for water, corpses, or gold. The earth's real treasure is far deeper."
"Ready . . . uh . . . fire!"

"If they don't drown, perhaps they'll rust."


He combs the streets looking for the lost light, the discarded enigmas of the city.






"The brood lineages unfolded across the world, each patterned after one of three progenitors, each a study in mindless consumption."
—*The Invokers' Tales*

"You aren't invited."

"Did it have this shape upon Mirrodin's creation, or did some inconceivable force shape the unshapable?"
—Pontifex, elder researcher
"Everything the wise woman learned she wrote in a book, and when the pages were black with ink, she took white ink and began again."
—Karn, silver golem

"You will learn to earn death."
—Volrath
Emrakul does not grant wishes. Desires simply align to her will.
"Rhonas's monument belongs to the wurms now. Look elsewhere for refuge."
—Arnun, vizier of the menagerie
"Roil tide! Roil tide! Tie yourselves down!"

"I'll return once you've ripened."
—Ghoulcaller Gisa
Underdark flooding has swallowed ancient drow burial chambers, which are now haunted . . . and infested with oozes.
Palmistry is much more effective when you read the fine print.



"You sign. They die. As simple as that."


It glints with arcane truths to those who know how to glimpse them.


"Might doesn't just build empires. It protects them."
—Inti, Sun Empire knight
The giant's real punishment was the fleeting moment when he was allowed to stand before being dragged down to his knees again.


With Thraben's army recalled to its city walls, outlying villages were left to fend for themselves.

"They're still here?! The cockroach may have finally met its match."
—Teferi

"Goblins are cheap, but be careful. It's a lot easier to steal from a corpse than a customer."
—Samila, Murasa Expeditionary House

Explorers may find ways into the Sky Ruin, but they find its secrets well protected by shifting hedrons and Roil winds.

"It is nature that gives us our boundaries and nature that enforces them."
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
Rats come in one amount: too many.
"The Simic come from the cold slow depths. How could they understand the fire in a wild heart?"
—Kroshkar, Gruul shaman
All the trees of the forest are his army, and every leaf his shield.
Every inch of Ravnica is home to something.
Its curve mimics the twists of life and death.
First the thunder, then the rain.




"Shackle the body, and the anguish lasts only until death. Shackle the soul, and the wicked can be punished for eternity."
—Inquisitor Laerin



Lumengrid, site of the Knowledge Pool, source of vedalken arcana.
As the price of wood and coal rose, smiths found creative ways to keep their forges burning.
"Even the bravest of warriors yet knows the dark clutch of fright upon his stalwart heart."
—Lim-Dûl the Necromancer

She parts the clouds so sunlight can reach even the darkest lairs and duskiest tombs.
From here, the path to anywhere may be found.

The furnace awaits the next master who would stoke the fires of apocalypse.
Battle doesn't need a purpose; the battle is its own purpose. You don't ask why a plague spreads or a field burns. Don't ask why I fight.
"There's more where that came from!"
The death of a scout can be as informative as a safe return.

"Ruhan would never agree to such terms."
—Ruhan of the Fomori
Four little goblins, trapped by the sea. One teased a serpent, and then there were three.




"Tilonalli's searing rays carry the spark of life's eventual destruction as all light fades."
—Chitlati, Lightning Rider





"We train for the improbable, like lightning striking the same place twice, or striking everywhere at once."
—Nundari, Sea Gate militia captain
A single lie unleashes a tide of disbelief.
"To the tutors, a 'poem of sand' was of little account, a 'poem of ivory,' priceless."
—Afari, *Tales*


At the instant of death, the mystery of life.
In time, not even the fire monks could keep up with Chandra.
As renegade forces closed in on the Aether Spire, Consulate blockades failed one by one.
The first mistake the Grimnant knights made was bullying the owner of an Urborg corpse shop. Their second mistake was dying.

"If you ever want to leave this forest, now's the time."

The view is truly spectacular—as long as you don't look at Rishada itself.

"Their origins are shrouded in mystery. I believe they are the protectors of the lost secrets of our world."
—Jilaya, Temur whisperer
Karn's creation is now his master.


The satyr carves the path that all of Rushwood follows.
—Cho-Arrim saying

"If the hierarchies of nature were determined by ferocity alone, the badger would be lord of the beasts."
—Anthousa of Setessa
The power of the forest takes a hundred forms. Some are more surprising than others.





"Looks like we've found the source. Torch it quick, before anything crawls out."
—Sergeant "Ripper" Jackson

"We thought the clouds had moved from the night sky. Then the night sky moved, and the horizon grew wings."
—Josuri
"All my spells smell like burnt hair lately."
—Jaya Ballard, task mage
Amidst the darkest ashes grow the strongest seeds.
"Violence is the food it craves. Feed it if you dare."
—Doriel, mentor of Mistral Isle

"Any fool can pick up a sword and charge into battle. To emerge alive at the end, that is a gift that comes from leadership and experience."

Great devotion yields great reward.

"Not all mortals fought the kami. The ogres revered the oni, while some humans made pacts based upon empty promises."
—*The History of Kamigawa*

In his last seconds, Remhas regretted using his most powerful spell.
"Keeping order is a task too important to relinquish in death."
—Abrado, Custodi priest
The floating city of High and Dry hasn't yet sunk under the weight of gold, but it's not for want of trying.
"This abomination never belonged in our world. I'm merely setting it free."
—Dierk, geistmage
"Of course I plan on going up. Kang here is the most trusted 'fin on the squad. Afraid? Me? No, I'm just . . . waiting for the right wind conditions."
"To comprehend the full answer requires years of temporal study. In short, they were now never born in the first place."
—Teferi
The first motion put forth in the pristine Jelenn Column was for severe restrictions on the airspace around New Prahv.

"Scholars seek to understand the way the world is. I wish to shape the world into what it should be."
In a world where death is always violent, cruel weapons are as common as rocks.
"In time our realm will shine again. But it will gleam only when we scour away the taint of doubt."
—Radiant, archangel

Some mages tapped into the time rifts, forcing upon others alternate timelines in which unimaginable horrors befall them.


His mind, like his body, is made up of the swamp's flotsam.

Llanowar has seven elfhames, or kingdoms, each with its own ruler. Their palaces are objects of awe, wonder, and envy.
"I see you've learned nothing, Chandra. You'd still put a match to something rather than understand it."
"Your presumption is your downfall."

"I'd be happy to stop contradicting you, Urza, just as soon as you start being right."
—Bo Levar, planeswalker
A king's knowledge does not vanish when the heart stops beating.


Five hundred years to grow—barely a minute to eat.
If you can't find a doorway, make one.
Sins that would be too gruesome in the light of day are made more pleasing in the dark of night.
For those who need to make a quick departure without attracting undue attention.
"A blessing is not a gift. It is a duty."


Al-abara simply laughed and lifted one finger, and the carpet carried her high out of our reach.


"Control the Great Conduit? You might as well try to divert a river with your hands."

Though the reaver is horrifyingly effective, its dorsal vents spit a highly corrosive cloud of filth.
"The finest pawns are those with pawns of their own."
—Nicol Bolas
"All you gotta do is panic with purpose. And plead your innocence with purpose. And have your mom bail you out with purpose."
That the Tolarian mists parted for the drakes was warning enough to stay away.
The Temur see themselves as a pack, their bonds more primal than the Abzan's.


The power of faith is quiet. It is the leaf unmoved by the hurricane.

Slow and steady wins the race.

Farmhands and priests mutter curses at the ragged thing; it unnerves more than just the crows.

"Article 5.8.2. Ensure proper restraint of any and all arms, legs, claws, jaws, tails, tentacles, and tendrils as appropriate."
—*Azorius Arrester Procedure*, Appendix B
Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.
For the patriar class, wealth is in the blood.

"Inner peace is wonderful, and worth striving for. Outer peace is much less important."
—Taelya, Lavabrink pyromage
"The world is a puzzle, and the mind is its key."
"They are here, and they are hungry. And what they do not eat, they burn. Yavimaya is lost. We must leave now for Skyshroud."
—Edahlis, greenseeker




His crime was silence, and now he suffers it eternally.
Rumors swirl of a pair of deadly Golgari assassins known only as the Left and Right Hands of the Ochran.

The Agents of S.N.E.A.K.—Serious, Nonstop Espionage and Kidnapping.


Although the elves of Argoth always considered them a nuisance, the pixies made fine allies during the war against the machines.

Decades to build. Hours to demolish.

「最悪の決断をするのは、いつも最も優秀な生徒です。」
——シルバークイル学部長、シェイル


As insubstantial, and as powerful, as the wind that carries it.

"The hour of your redemption is here. . . . Rally to me. . . . rise and strike. Strike at every favorable opportunity. For your homes and hearths, strike!"
—General Douglas MacArthur, to the people of the Philippines


"For my enemies, one death. For my allies, many."
—Liliana Vess


"Granted, it's the pinnacle of utter destructiveness. So what would you call *two* of them?"
—Riku of Two Reflections
To crack a mirror is to provide an opening for the reflection to escape.

Everything has an off switch.


"With this marvel, even the weak have a fighting chance!"
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
Broad prairies feed the human sanctuary of Drannith and conceal a network of caverns where giant cats make their dens.
"Rest now. You've neither won nor lost, but this battle is over for you just the same."
—Teferi

Ulamog's progeny swarm the land, draining Zendikar's mana to feed the titan's insatiable hunger.
The people of the Sevick Isles have a unique understanding of the term "ominous clouds."
"I am that merry wanderer of the night."
—William Shakespeare,
*A Midsummer Night's Dream*
Where herds have passed, the dented ground is lined with piles of rust.
"He is judge, jury, and executioner because he killed them all."
—Bishop Cawle of Elgaud

"The monster was gaining on them. Twice it had found them. There was only one place left to hide."
—*Tales of the Fae*
"I don't need your mage-rings or your mana equations. I call, and the sea answers."
—Keyta, rebel hydromancer


"Should you take it in mind to ride a springjack, remember: there are easier ways to fly, and harder ways to break your skull."
—Lann of Cloverdell

Its growl is the crackling and popping of a wildfire untamed.
Few entrances lead to where demons and devils lurk. Unfortunately, they occasionally open new ones.

"The wind whispers, 'come home,' but I cannot."
—Teferi
She died in this swamp, and so will you.










"Day 1: These fox pups have really taken to me.
"Day 4: Big. So big. Need additional security."
—Jonald, mission naturalist, research notes
Effective use of terrain is a lesson good commanders learn quickly.
"What weapon will you bear against one who's mastered them all?"
"I smell the tang of a mortal's fresh blood. I hear it sliding wetly beneath its skin. My hunger cannot refuse the invitation."
—Yuri, Sengir vampire

The lamps on Wyndmoor Street snuff themselves at midnight and refuse to relight, afraid to illuminate what lies in the darkness.
"It's a bit much, I know, but it reminds my visitors who really holds the power here."
—Davriel Cane
The impact sent the soldiers scattering—then something came out of the crater.




"When one wolf calls, others follow. Who wants to fight creatures that eat scorpions?"
—Maimun al-Wyluli, diary




The thunder of its hooves beats dreams into despair.


"One would think I would be accustomed to unexpected returns."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator
They swim on tides few can see, away from a threat few yet understand.

"I hear the gods' voices in my dreams each night, and I offer bloody trophies on their altars each day."
"The folk of the Karplusan mountains are impossible to ambush."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain

Dream of nothing, and wake to a dream come true.
Necrodermis, the living metal from which all Necrons are made, is endlessly adaptive.
Beware the gifts of an ill-tempered forge god.


When the other soldiers of Zhalfir fall, the askaris will yet stand.


"Those who seek my protection shall receive it."
—Nylea, god of the hunt



"At least this one still has arms and legs. Well, most of its legs."
—Enslow, ghoulcaller of Nephalia


"What is mana but possibility, an idea not yet given form?"
—Jhoira, master artificer







Minotaurs favor magic that manifests as weapons wrapped in flame.
"I don't know you, but that hammer rings a bell."


The kor of Zendikar are known for quiet determination in the face of overwhelming odds.



"The essence of a lawful society is swift deterrence."






"Works every time! Well, every time they don't explode, anyway."
—Barton, stitcher
What goes up, must come down.
Not content with mere answers, she hunts for the truth.







"He's a living library. He remembers everything our band of explorers has seen, and we can use that to our advantage."
—Zahr Gada, Halimar expedition leader


The persistence to overcome obstacles is the most esteemed of kor virtues.
"The landscape shimmered and I felt a chill breeze. When my vision cleared, I found myself alone among the corpses of my fallen friends."
—Journal found in Numai


Just as the sun rises at dawn and the days lengthen in the summer, the Sun Empire has awakened after long years of quiet.

She sings for all those who have been silenced.
Trained in the arts of stealth, the royal assassins choose their victims carefully, relying on timing and precision rather than brute force.


They watch for a new master, one more sinister than the last.




"Quell your ego and anywhere can be as calm as a hurricane's eye."





Artifact construction required immense resources.

The undisputed master of the mountains of Shiv.
"The soul is only as eternal as I say it is."
—Sharuum the Hegemon
In case of emergency, crush bug.
Nature grows solutions to its problems.


After serving his apprenticeship under Barrin of Tolaria, Ertai graced the *Weatherlight* crew with his presence as the ship's "resident" wizard. He realizes that few recognize his greatness—but then how could they, when they lack his insight and wisdom?

The sea is always hungry.


His favor comes at a high price.
"There are no obstacles, only different paths."

The longest nights are measured not in hours, but in heartbeats.

The druid knew only one spell, a charm to encourage rapid plant growth. When airborne Eternals invaded her arboretum, she had to get creative.
"With spy thopters all around, how can the consuls be so blind to Tezzeret's manipulations?"
—Gideon Jura
"Never taunt an embermage, 'What are you going to do about it?'"
—Akin, seasoned askari
It outnumbers you one to many.


Whenever you copy a triggered ability, you may do a little dance.
"Cursed be the sickly forms that err from honest Nature's rule!"
—Alfred, Lord Tennyson, "Locksley Hall"
Do the candleguides' heads turn to follow you as you pass, or is it merely a trick of the flickering light?
Eternal Weekend 2022 Legacy
Nature grows solutions to its problems.
"You are beneath contempt. Your lineage will be forgotten."
"All warfare is based on deception."
—Sun Tzu, *Art of War* (trans. Giles)



Beneath bright blossoms
Verdant with spring's rich bounty,
The soul blooms in song.


In hindsight, Chandra's Incendiary Experience should never have been built next to Auntie Grub's House of Pitch.
Even its shadow is a dazzling rainbow.

Nevinyrral's final act of spite was to make sure all of his magic was destroyed along with him.
She's always willing to lend a hand. It just won't be her own.
To keep the dead so others may live.
—Shadow Guild maxim

"Just the thing for those pesky water mages."
—Jaya Ballard, task mage

I didn't think Mammoths could ever hold a candle to a well-trained battle horse. Then one day I turned my back on a drunken soldier. His blow never landed; Mi'cha flung the brute over ten meters.






"Eldrazi? Ha! Try walking through Zulaport at night with your pockets full. Now *that's* dangerous."
"A stick is your friend. A pointed stick is your good friend. An army of pointed sticks is your best friend."
—Onean sergeant

Daru soldiers learned it's better to have a clean death from a sharp blade than to tangle with a goblin's rusted chains.


"Writhing tendrils of darkness stitched him back together. Though his will and body both were broken, the necromancer's magic would not let him rest."
—Krinnea, *Siege of the Bone Spire*

Dinner and politics don't mix.
Is it at the top of the food chain or the bottom?


"Never track the roc itself with your eyes, for it will swoop with the sun at its back and blind you. Instead, track its shadow and, when it's almost upon you, heave your javelin upward with all your might."
"Mana lurks in all things, even in the depths of one's own heart."
"Bottled life. Not as tasty as I'm used to, rather stale, but it has the same effect."
—Baron Sengir
To buy unseen land, pay in unseen coin.
—Suq'Ata maxim
The most successful of Simic creations is cytoplasm, a living, symbiotic substance that feeds off genetic rhythms and strengthens its host in return.

These kids know their four-letter words.






First, whispers of ancient days. Then, visions of things to come.
Deserted, but not uninhabited.
"Go forth and cause trouble, my little one!"


"Let the pyres of the unbelievers light our way."
—Razia
"You will respect the dead."
"Should you a Rat to madness tease
Why ev'n a Rat may plague you..."
—Samuel Coleridge, "Recantation"
A grave is the safest place to store ill-gotten treasures.
When you rule by fear, your greatest weakness is one who's no longer afraid.


The Vodalian Empire tends to be insular. The scholarly Volshe caste are the exception, using education as an antidote to xenophobia.

The wings are held in place by wicker rods. The rods are held in place by pure faith.
Serum was once derived from Mirrodin's blinkmoths, offering visions of inspiration. Now it is pulled from Phyrexian inkmoths, yielding visions of perfection.



The mouth must be pried open before rigor mortis sets in. Otherwise the returning soul can find no ingress.

Death in form and function.
"We found this staff useful on our visit to this very commission. Would Relicbane prefer we had been slain by Lim-Dûl's horrors?"
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist


"To spend your life seeking, only to find regret upon achieving … this is the most delicious irony of all."
—Leshrac, Walker of Night




"The landscape shimmered and I felt a chill breeze. When my vision cleared, I found myself alone among the corpses of my fallen friends."
—Journal found in Numai
When one leonin hunts, many more are surely nearby.



She speaks only in whispers but can be heard over the fiercest storm.
"Words lie. People lie. The land tells the truth."
"He's big an' dumb an' ready to fight. A lot like ol' Hornhead here."
—Squee, goblin cabin hand, scouting report
"Basically, we turn a bunch of little lightnings into one big lightning."



The helix was the finest example of Mishra's campaign strategy: if he couldn't have Argoth, no one could.
The bonds of the pack transcend time and death.




"That which does not bend to the will of Freyalise shall surely break."
—Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order

Crovax's rage was horrifying. Within moments only blood and shreds of flesh remained of the shapeshifter.


"Once, a Quirion asked why I was so cautious when the day was clear. I told him of the sky-blue hide of the cerluean wyvern, and he offered me double if I could conjure a strong tailwind!"
—Sisay, Captain of the *Weatherlight*

"Command is the act of balancing on a vine and convincing others that it is firm ground."
—Sidar Jabari

"There are so many of them. It seems they've just been waiting for someone to serve."
Friends teach what you want to know. Enemies teach what you *need* to know.
Ravnica's convoluted power structure often boils down to who can muster the most swords on a given block.

"I think he sees more than he lets on."
—Gerrard
Dominaria's most extravagant crypt nevertheless holds an empty grave.
Every worthy warrior who arrives in Starnheim is gifted a mount befitting their heroism, a mighty pegasus raised and trained by the valkyries.
These tears of pain I weep to the skies, Not bitter drops, but water made divine. Each gem of sorrow slips, no longer mine, But proffered thus to echo other cries.




The king of Yavimaya's waters pays constant attention to his subjects . . . and thrives on their adulation.
"I'll have my revenge if I have to call on every force from above and below."



"Wake up, new Phyrexian Planeswalker! You will not be the last."
—Jin-Gitaxias
For the Simic Combine, its sigil serves not as an emblem of honor but as a trademark. Its familiar image on any biological commodity attests to superb craftsmanship, ingenious innovation, and higher cost.




Lukka was ordered to kill a threat. He chose to make a friend.

I don't know how I got here, but I'l be the last one standing.

It's not just the wind. It's not all in your head. And it's *definitely* something to worry about.
Instead of creating a tool that would be damaged by heat, the Thran built one that was charged by it.



"What kind of monstrous grave robber leaves the treasures, but takes the bodies?"
—Fjall, Beskir elder
"The flesh is a casket for the soul."
—Shauku, Endbringer

"Reality is always much duller and grayer than what your imagination can conjure."

The clicks and buzz of the undercity proclaim him the incarnation of decay.



"From legend it was forged, and to legend it returns."
As eons passed, the rock wore away, revealing the rich colors at the mountain's heart.

"Father of Machines! Your filigree gaze carves us, and the scars dance upon our grateful flesh."
—*Phyrexian Scriptures*
"Here is a companion who will never falter, no matter how desperate the battle!"
—Ajani Goldmane

One piercing stare usually convinces thieves to go elsewhere.
The Earth herself lends her strength to these walls of living stone, which possess the stability of ancient mountains. These mighty bulwarks thwart ground-based troops, providing welcome relief for weary warriors who defend the land.

"The seedlings scream for us to loose them upon the Eldrazi, and we shall oblige."

Time is a marvelous plaything.
"They are called 'fowl' for a reason."
—Mirri of the Weatherlight

The Minotaurs of the Hurloon Mountains are known for their love of battle. They are also known for their hymns to the dead, sung for friend and foe alike. These hymns can last for days, filling the mountain valleys with their low, haunting sounds.
Afterward, Tolaria's winds were like the whispers of lost wizards, calling for life.
"On the fifty-seventh day of the Battle of Silk, the bell again tolled in hopes of summoning mortal aid. This time, a new breed of kami rose to answer its call."
—*Great Battles of Kamigawa*

"We've managed to keep the goblins in their assigned areas, but there's little we can do about the smell."
—Whip Tongue, viashino technician
"My family was saved thanks to a single Boros soldier. It's why I joined the Legion. I will be the protector now."
Bitter the bite of a demon's steel, and deep the abyss it opens.



Just call it OMRSTPLRLCNSWMTCTHTALCNEE for short.
Nylea's sacred lynx guards those who honor the Nessian Wood and hunts those who don't.

You will scream out your innermost secrets just to make it stop.
"Four things that never meet do here unite
To shed my blood and to ravage my heart,
A radiant brow and tresses that beguile
And rosy cheeks and a glittering smile." —*The Arabian Nights*, trans. Haddawy




The sunlight falls pristine on the temple at Epityr, softened by the remembered shadows of angelic saviors' wings.
Its blood is life. Its body is growth.
Its insatiable hunger quickly depletes a region of prey. It must migrate from place to place to feed its massive bulk.
When he began to curse what he held holy, his strength grew unrivaled.




Cyclical and spiral patterns are the specialty of the Gyre Clade, which seeks to revitalize the cycles of nature.
Her hunt is silent until a bone snaps or flesh tears. Her victims never know to scream.

Keldon warriors take advantage of the cyclops's inability to focus on more than one thing at a time.


"I do as I please, little mortal. Do go on about your wishes, though—they amuse me to no end."
"What do you have that I cannot obtain?"
—Mairsil, called the Pretender
"Pleased to meet you, Seven."
Plant a field with wishes, and you will grow more wishes.
—Nantuko teaching





Finding an unexplored world, they immediately set it on fire.

"Chronicles across the ages describe Jodah. They likely refer not to one mage, but to a family or an arcane title."
—Arkol, Argivian scholar

Surviving an encounter with it is proof enough that an initiate is ready for the Trial of Strength.
He can't fear what he can't see.

"My power is generosity, in a way. I give my survivors an appreciation for their lives."
"I would welcome her into my pack with honor."
—Arlinn Kord

Those who move harmoniously with the flow of aether can channel the power of the natural world.

"Shatter your opponent's spell with enough force, and you'll shatter their confidence with it."
—*Tome of Obstructions*, marginalia

In its world of complete darkness, it has no shadows to fear.


"No longer can we allow our human populations to be mindlessly slaughtered by ghouls. Slay all who trespass."
—Runo Stromkirk

"This must not become common knowledge. The consequences of such a spell are too great. Lock it away in the restricted archive, and destroy its record in the catalog."
—Director Taiva, to Isabough
Just be thankful it wasn't grammar scorpions.

"I implore you not to forget the horrors of the past. You would have us start the Brothers' War anew!"
—Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi heretic



"I escaped, so why do I still feel like I'm being watched?"
—Gregel, militia leader
"What do you have that I cannot obtain?"
—Mairsil, the Pretender
Gnolls make offerings to sinister forces in the shadow-drenched chasms.

Centuries ago, Mangara won the loyalty of the Quirion not by ruling their minds but by supporting their independence.
"Too much friction on your bearings, your countersinking is inconsistent, and there are lines in your casting. Dispose of it, and begin again."
—Dovin Baan
Airborne flowstone isn't less dangerous, only less common.
The indigo dragon gladly traded a bit of its hoard for everlasting moonlight.


"I will go where the lion-man leads."


In their final moments, the demons gazed upon grace in its purest form.
"We are no longer Nature's children, but her masters . . . ."
—Oath of the Ebon Hand
After an hour in the hidey-hole, Squee seriously pondered the advantages of danger over boredom.




"Guilty as charged!"
"Try to pretend like you understand what's important."
"I have attuned the staff to your screams so that only I may benefit from your pain."
—Volux, disciple of Nin


When it snared a passing cockatrice, its own soul darkly doubled.

Silent. Slithering. Sinister.










Kolaghan archers are trained in Dakla, the way of the bow. They utilize their dragonlord's lightning to strike their target, no matter how small, how fast, or how far away.






The myr are like rusted metal: gleaming purpose hidden by a thin disguise of debris.
He provides a safe path to nowhere.




The only shortcut in a bog is to the bottom.

"The music is in the drum. I simply coax it out to be heard."
Kaito grabbed the chip, hoping it held answers.
"Our bodies are weak compared to those of the kami, our knowledge limited, and our magic poor. Yet we draw breath. That alone is reason to hope."
"Virtue is an inner light that can prevail in every soul."
A chorus of life heralds the arrival of Mirrodin's final sun.
Centuries' worth of black iron lie beneath the soil of every Imperial world, their civilization built on never-ending strife.


Enlightenment is not gained by striking the bell or hearing its toll. It's found in the silence that follows.
Members of the Order often played the Hymn on instruments made from their victims' bones.
In New Capenna, it's survival of the richest.
Sometimes one fireball isn't enough.

A bit of pain never hurts.
"Subtlety is for lawmages and spies."
"Verdant bloom does exist. It merely hides for its own safety."

"Strength in numbers? Right."
—Ib Halfheart, Goblin Tactician
"Slivers are evil and slivers are sly; And if you get eaten, then no one will cry."
—Mogg children's rhyme

It teaches *you* to play dead.
"Magic brought peace to the Vastlands but was soon corrupted."
—*The Mystic Age: A Saga of Spells*

"The cost of your opposition will be extracted from your wits."
—Nekusar, the Mindrazer

The perfect antidote for a tightly packed formation.

It can stay aloft for weeks with little or no sleep.
Its wings disturb more than air.


"Born under the sun, the first child will seek the foundation of honor and be fortified by its righteousness."
—Codex of the Constellari




Not since the days of Pashalik Mons have the Rundvelt goblins been so united or effective.
From its maw comes neither word nor whisper—only wind.

Some have returned to Hollowhenge, the ruins of Avabruck, to restore the lost capital of Kessig.
Many take the lobster for granite.

"All right. Warm-ups are over."
"Welcome aboard, mate! You're going to need this."
Its victims feel only an itchy, wriggling feeling just under their skin. By then, it's far too late.
"You two, cover the alley! You, with me! Eyes on windows, balconies, and rooftops. Who knows what a fish-octopus-crab can do!"
Martyred for worshipping her ancestors, she now walks among them.
It harmonizes with the essence of its master.
"Shame we'll never see what all the fuss was about."
"I hate the smell of charred Phyrexian, but it sure beats the alternative!"
—Jaya
"Be open to the blessings, whatever their form."
—Kaysa, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order

"I knew that trick long before your great-grandmother's great-grandmother was born."

Fallowsages debate whether the whiskergill is native to the Dark Meanders or merely dreamstuff made real.

Modo was great at making friends . . . into shields.



Raising the bones of Hekjek the Mad proved far easier than getting them to lie back down.


Duty brings them together. Loyalty keeps them together.
"We are never without guidance, if we but seek it."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, Elvish Hunter
"'Do you know, I always thought Unicorns were fabulous monsters, too? I never saw one alive before!' 'Well, now that we have seen each other,' said the Unicorn, 'if you'll believe in me, I'll believe in you.'" —Lewis Carroll

It seeks those consumed with rage and offers burning blades.
"They're useful creatures, but quite replaceable. I find it best not to get too attached."
—Pontifex, elder researcher


"Not so scary when you can't squeeze through the air ducts, are you?"
They've got claws as long as your arm. And they're grouchy. Really, really grouchy.

"Keep watch? Why? Nothing going to mess with us. We too big and scary."

She will not touch a weapon, yet she is the greatest protector her people have ever known.

There is power in prayer, regardless of who is listening.
Don't cross him or you'll end up sleeping with the merfolk.
It took the banning of temporal manipulation at Tolaria West to teach its students the value of time.

"Well, this got out of hand."



Every kill is a sacrament of the Emperor's glory.
"A blade is just a tool. Its power comes from the hand that wields it."
—Danitha


"In Rath," the priest said, "there is even greater need for prayer."
"Corpses for crew don't sit well with me. Zeki and his dead ship had best keep their distance."
—Joskun, An-Havva Constable
Today it's a miracle of architecture, a marvel of stained glass, a symbol of the Legion's power. Tomorrow, driftwood.

The only thing that flows faster than water is fear.



"In times like these, people need to be reminded of compassion."
—Sisay

Nature's way of saying "take the long way home."
コーヒーは発明の偏屈な叔母であるのだ。

"I can staunch their blood, mend their flesh, and knit their bones. But I cannot restore their hope."
—Tender-Hand, kitsune healer



"In case of fire, treachery, citywide riot, political upheaval, or worldwide societal collapse, break glass."
—Cluestone inscription
Mystery lies beneath the haunting mists. Never stay where obscurity deepens.
Arc mages aren't known for their patience.
Your pleas for death shall go unheard.


"My summoning begins your debt, Planeswalker."



"The very lands of Balduvia are alive."
—Arna Kennerüd, Skyknight

"Now is not the time for your light to fade."

Jariad burned the midnight oil, burned through scroll after scroll, and then burned down his laboratory.
"There's no need to sound the alarm. You are minding your post admirably. I am authorized. All is well."
The maneuvers of the Abzan formation intrigued Ojutai in both their complexity and their futility.



"Beware of trees that talk. Their words are threats. And mind the ones that sway and creak. They too threaten us, but in a foreign tongue."
—*The Book of Other Folk*





"My shadow alone will slay you."


The only sound was the gentle clicking of the faeries' wings. Then those intruders who were still standing turned and fled. One thing was certain: they didn't think the Scryb were very funny anymore.


"Fear not the angels' constant eyes,
E'er on watch from lightless skies;
Eternal vigil we will keep,
Protectors of the Blessed Sleep."



"The harder they try to extinguish my faith, the brighter it burns in the darkness."


The path to ruin is forged in pain.


". . . and furthermore . . ."
"Silence your wailing. This is but a taste of the destruction my pets have in store."


The life of a shapeshifter is one of constant change.

The draconic demon loomed over Dack, and he suddenly sensed he wasn't the only Planeswalker that Malfegor had encountered.








His victims don't have time to feel despair.
Glory surged through her and radiance surrounded her. All things were possible with the blessing of the Divine.
The honored dead who lie in blessed grafs are not easily stirred, but the threat of eternal night called many from their rest.

The first explorers found Argoth a storehouse of natural wealth—towering forests grown over rich veins of ore.
Heedless of Nissa's warnings, Nahiri repeated history.

"Sing, beauty. Sing for death, and for the dead."
—Ashiok
A deafening roar arose as the fury of an enormous vertical river supplanted our serenity. Eddies turned into whirling geysers, leveling everything in their path.

"I do not teach. I simply reveal."
—Daudi, Femeref tutor
"Fire will cure a multitude of ills."

"Everybody grab a leg!"
Ghouls devour the dead and any living creatures unwary enough to fall into their grasp.

"Some of the other guys dared me to touch it, but I knew it weren't no ordinary hunk o' rock." —Norin the Wary

"One day we shall walk where once was water."
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
Though the grip of a golem is strong, the grip of Auriok magic is far stronger.


Outside Drannith's walls, where collateral damage is of no concern, the Coppercoats are free to use more potent methods.
"Let your heartbeat be the thunder in the valley. Let your swords be the lightning on the peaks."
—Lothar Lovisason, Balduvian chieftain
"O! call back yesterday, bid time return." —William Shakespeare, *King Richard the Second*
The same spears that catch their food today will defend their homes tomorrow.

Greel's grin is far less loathsome than his touch.
Those who bring nothing to the temple take nothing away.
"To feel no constraint but the four points of a compass, to tread a path that only you can find . . . these are the flavors of power I've learned to savor."
—Keon, horizon walker

Loyal to a fault, it anticipates its master's every need.

Many Keldon warriors bear the mark of intentional insanity.
In nature, not a single bone or scrap of flesh goes to waste.



"We have joined with the Druids of the Juniper Order. Our faith is one."
—Laina of the Elvish Council

"In the drowsy dark cave of the mind, dreams build their nest with fragments dropped from day's caravan."
—Rabindranath Tagore
The shaman of the tribe is responsible for keeping track of all its treasures, including angry pets and cursed lamps of fiery doom.

"Temper, temper."
—Ertai, wizard adept

"You've thrown your net at the wrong fish."
—The Lord of Atlantis


In the heavy hush of Krosa, drawing on mana is like ringing a dinner bell.


"Guess where I'm gonna plant this!"
Lord Jannath sent you to secure the mine from gnoll raiders, but so far you haven't seen any gnolls . . . or, for that matter, any miners.


"Some cannot be saved as they are, but all can serve the Worldsoul."
—Trostani

"If you refuse to see the light, then you will feel it."
In a hobgoblin's view of the world, the weak owe tribute and fealty to the strong.
"Behold the power of my hat and the ghosts of two other hats I used to own!"

"Show weakness to hide your strength."




Wizards fought over the stone to exploit its power. Goblins fight over it because it's shiny.
Most clocks measure time, but a few measure everything.
The more metal it digests, the more its jelly will fetch on the alchemists' market.
Predators try to separate the young, old, or injured from the rest of the herd. The alternative is crushing defeat.


Even the fiercest beast will flee when faced with the possibility of becoming dinner.

When giants find their mountain homes infested, they have a whole range of solutions.
For Sarkhan Vol, the dragon is the purest expression of life's savage splendor.
"Found families deserve a family crest too."
—Kinnan, bonder prodigy

"We are all decaying, always in a state of near-death. One moment without breath and we begin to break down."
—Cevraya, Golgari shaman



After a brief but memorable incident at her first performance, she was never heckled again.

It grew in lands lit by pride and watered by tears.





He rose from the graf for every cobbler, tanner, and fool who'd been slaughtered in the parish—and they rose and shambled after him.

"The sky teems with just as much life as the forest or the deep seas."
—Hadi Kasten, Calla Dale naturalist
The masks float downstream toward the Mirrorlake, where faces arise to wear them.
With their factories long destroyed, some of Mishra's creations still toil in remote areas, endlessly performing and reperforming their last orders.
One who is marked by a demon in life is sure to be remembered as one in death.
It's bigger than it thinks.

"Look at this goblin, once wild, untamed, and full of idiocy. The Boros have given him the skill of a soldier and focused his heart with a single cause."
—Razia

"I've always made snap decisions. I'm just better at making the right ones now that I'm older and wiser."
—Teferi
"The panic is amusing, but the real fun comes when the spell passes and the villagers start looking for a scapegoat."
—Ludevic, necro-alchemist

Many people say that no power can bring the mountains low. Many people are fools.

'Twas in the bogs of Cannelbrae My mate did meet an early grave; 'Twas nothing left for us to save In the peat-filled bogs of Cannelbrae.


"I have been brought to this place and I cannot leave. I may be free of the amber, but I am still in prison."
"Evil is to be unshackled, not slain. Unlock your foe and release the miracle within."
—Keevan, docent of Kollema Hall
"The arc of my blade has carved a path of light for the peace that will follow."
Once an iron golem is set to a task, it won't turn aside until that task is complete or it has been destroyed.
"Spend too much time scanning the shadows for evil and you'll never see the beauty our world has to offer."
—Katilda, Dawnhart Prime
"What else, when chaos draws all forces inward to shape a single leaf." —Conrad Aiken

From its cocoon, a flurry takes flight.
"The day of Spirits; my soul's calm retreat / Which none disturb!"
—Henry Vaughan, "The Night"
"For he on honey-dew hath fed, And drunk the milk of Paradise."
—Samuel Taylor Coleridge, "Kubla Khan"


The traditional kings of the jungle command a healthy respect in other climates as well. Relying mainly on their stealth and speed, Savannah Lions can take a victim by surprise, even in the endless, flat plains of their homeland.
A cry of pain as it enters this world. A chorus of screams as it leaves.
Rather than sheltering her young, the female Fungusaur often injures her own offspring, thereby ensuring their rapid growth.
"Gaea knows what you need. Do you?"
Just because your eyes are open doesn't mean you're awake.
Rishada is the gateway to free trade—but the key will cost you.




Each mutation causes the incurables to look vastly different from one another. They are left with only one thing in common: their insatiable lust for the slaughter.
The goblins call the gliders "death from above." Everyone else calls them "clods in the clouds."



The torches and pitchforks were no match for Rebecca's fans.
As unpredictable as aether, and just as hard to contain.

"The seedling you save today may be the sheltering boughs of generations to come."
"Don't worry, Jiro. The kami would never attack us this close to home . . . . Jiro?"
—Hoto, temple guardian, last words
"What has neither mouth nor throat, yet swallows captain, crew, and boat?"
—Sphinx's riddle

After years of training, the druid becomes one with nature, drawing power from the land and returning it when needed.


"The treasure in my mind is greater than any worldly glory."

On Innistrad, it is seldom wrong to stay indoors.
"Romanticize it, glamorize it, call it what you will. To me, it will always be carnal, bloody murder."
—Ayli, Kamsa cleric
"Don't search the ruins of Orn during the day. Nethroi's many eyes will spot you instantly. Don't go at night either. You'll be dinner for the servals. Maybe just don't go."
—Rasai, Indatha hunter



"You are undeserving of the afterlife. You will never feel the God-Pharaoh's embrace."


Dragons emerge from tempests fully formed and terribly hungry.



"Men and rats both hunger: we for our playthings; they, for us."
—Crovax


"Etherium clouded my eyes, clogged my ears, desensitized my skin. Now that I can feel, I can begin to learn."
"If Heaven has placed it in your hands, it means that the throne is destined to be yours."

An explorer of the Æther, Tuknir often discovers himself in the most unusual physical realms.

When the eternal stars align, can mere mortals resist?
When he began to curse what he held holy, his strength grew unrivaled.
"When we were lost and weary, the ainok showed us how to survive. They have earned the right to call themselves Abzan, and to wear the Scale."
—Anafenza, khan of the Abzan



"If only an angel's wings could shelter us all."
—Barrin
Energy is never lost, only transformed.


She formed a friendship with several playful spirits, and soon "the pack" was known as the source of much mischief in Eiganjo.
{1}: This card's flavor text becomes the flavor text of your choice. (This ability doesn't work because it's flavor text, not rules text (but neither does this reminder text, so you figure it out).)



Following his hunger for knowledge and power from the past, Urza starved Dominaria's future.



Forged out of flowstone for the queen of Vesuva.
"Frozen, we watched the funnel pluck up three of the goats—pook! pook! pook!—before we ran for the wadi."
—*Travelogue of Najat*




On the volcanic continent of Akoum, bizarre vegetation clusters around gas vents, and jagged mountain peaks rise high into the air.
Her grand wedding had one goal: to unite the vampire bloodlines under her rule.


This timeworn relic was responsible for many of Urza's victories, though he never fully comprehended its mystical runes.

"The shortest path between two points is not always the safest."
—Tamina, district guide

Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.
Spring follows winter
—Elvish expression meaning "all things pass"



The shield of unimpeachable purity is as strong as any wrought on the anvil.
A Reckoner always has another trick up their sleeve—or as their sleeve.

"What do you have that I cannot obtain?"
—Mairsil, the Pretender
"GOTCHA!"
—Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
There are things beneath the murk for whom the bog is a stew, a thin broth in need of meat.
"You can come back once you've learned some manners—and figured out how to reconstitute your physical forms."


The land is ever resilient. Should it die, it will be reborn.
Highly territorial, they often attack boats whose colors too closely resemble those of other drakes.
Long ago, birds of paradise littered the skies. Thanks to the city's sprawl, most now exist as pets of society's elite.
Life is ephemeral. Phyrexia is eternal.
"You are wrong," Volrath said. "I do not hate the living. They often prove quite useful to me." And then he laughed.



It's no coincidence that the oldest trolls are also the angriest.
As blood touched the empty page, it formed words that seared themselves into the wizard's mind.



The elk is Gaea's favorite, who wears the forest on its brow.






It teaches *you* to play dead.
"For the lost and forgotten, I will keep watch."
The slag-workers wasted no time in creating their own flare pulses to cleanse the area of the *incompleat*.
"The victim was either clawed to death or struck by lightning. Possibly both."
—Pel Javya, Wojek investigator
All things will crumble, whether by time or by force.
"Believe in the ideal, not the idol."
—Serra
With the cycles of day and night unspooled, the twisted sway of the moon only grew. And grew.
"Temper, temper."
—Ertai, wizard adept

Upon discovering what had become of her sisters, Sigarda could only weep.

She had expected death to roar, to thunder, to growl. She did not recognize it when it came hissing to her side.


As the druids had devoted their lives to preserving Dominaria, so did they devote their deaths.
"The enlightenment I never found in etherium I have found traced in the coatl's scales."
—Ranalus, vedalken heretic

For once, Squee realized, *he* wasn't the dumb one.
The prince consort was happy to let Yotia's coffers fund his extravagant research.


They say the Zombie Master controlled these foul creatures even before his own death, but now that he is one of them, nothing can make them betray him.
"If your mech is factory standard, you might as well be walking."




No weapon stays on the rack for long in the Burning Yard.

Don't trust your secrets to the sea.
"Rumors persist of dark deeds performed in the depths of Soldev. When will Dagsson heed the danger therein?"
—Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi heretic

Ulamog's processors trail behind him, converting ruined matter into furious energy.
On Tarkir, dragons emerge from enormous tempests, phenomena tied to Ugin's very presence on the plane.

Putting the "oo" in "spooky" and the "fun" in "no refunds!"
"This arm's got plenty of use left in it. Who'd throw such a nice thing away?"
"Where has little Gossamer gone?"
—Thaniel, Gatstaf shepherd




Like the dryads, the forest itself willingly gives up some of its life for the sake of the future.
Mages of Esper measure their wealth and status by the number of servants in their retinues.
"Nobody asked you to butt in, Jace. But thanks."
—Chandra Nalaar


This timeworn relic was responsible for many of Urza's victories, though he never fully comprehended its mystical runes.
"Let him be an example to others who would default on their debts to us."
—"The Cozen," Orzhov assassin

You give your clients what they want at a fair price. What happens after that is none of your concern.
When nothing remains, everything is equally possible.


Every facet aglow like iron in Moradin's mighty forge.

A family that welcomes birds of all feathers.

On Innistrad, one person's windfall usually starts with another person lying face down in the mud.
"I may be kha, but without my soldiers, my people, I am nothing."
—Raksha Golden Cub
If only every message were as perfect as its bearer.
Masters of the arcane savor a delicious irony. Their study of deep and complex arcana leads to such a simple end: the ability to say merely yes or no.
He has spent years training his eyes and ears to detect the subtle signs of a dragon's approach.




Skills mastered by initiates are preserved within cartouches, so Eternals remain adept at their preferred combat styles.
"Do not let a single shaft loose until my word. And when I give that word, do not leave a single shaft in Eiganjo."
—General Takeno
"Sit. Fetch. Devastate."

"Coming down is the best part!"

"All my life I've fought these monsters. Today I finish that fight."
—Barrin
He vowed he would never rest until he reached his destination. He doesn't know how right he was.



"When the kumo attacked the monks' sacred shrine, a mournful toll for help echoed through the forest. Thus began the Battle of Silk, which would last six years."
—*Great Battles of Kamigawa*

"Watch over my father. Tell him I'm safe, but I won't come home until I find out how to bring him back to his senses, and Kamigawa is again at peace."
—Michiko Konda, last letter to General Takeno
"Direct confrontation never was to the orcs' taste."
—General Varchild
"Rage is not the answer. Rage followed by fitting vengeance is the answer."
—Ajani



"The Cloud Nacatl sit and think, a bunch of soft paws. We are the Claws of Marisi, stalking, pouncing, drawing blood."


"The changing kind suffers as we do. We must join as one to quench our tyrants!"

"Brave scar or unfortunate tale? It all depends on your pain threshold."
"This ceaseless device has helped uncover marvels unreachable by mere flesh."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist

"Just as I suspected. They thought they'd hidden the terminal, so they got lazy with the encryption."
Your discerning eye for value makes you nearly impossible to swindle.
The stench in the hovel was overpowering; something loathsome was cooking. Occasionally something surfaced in the thick paste, but my host would casually push it down before I could make out what it was.
Like a sleeping dragon, Shiv stirs and groans at times.
"Not all in our crop deserve the afterlife. We must leave the unworthy behind, Samut."
—Djeru, initiate of Tah crop



Oona's song is like a twisted dinner chime. All the faeries return home, but it is Oona who feasts—on the stolen dreams and rumors they serve her.

From jungle to sea, from sea to stone, from stone to field, from field to bone. What am I?
—Zhalfirin riddle



"When one wolf calls, others follow. Who wants to fight creatures that eat scorpions?"
—Maimun al-Wyluli, diary



The mere approach of an Abzan war beast is enough to send enemies fleeing in panic.
"Zendikar will triumph this day, and our armies will fly with angels."
"If you don't break camp as you leave, you'll return to find it broken for you."
—Jonald, mission naturalist
"I bring a fire to recast all the world."
"If I fail to offer myself, we will surely be overrun. My fate would be the same."


Few remember the exploits of Dakkon's grandmother, Eunice Blackblade.


"Each generation teaches the next that artifice is the enemy of natural order."
—Kaysa, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order
To Mirrodin, an explosive. To Phyrexia, a missionary.



The elite cathars of the Parish-Blades train in all manner of techniques designed to delay and frustrate the beasts that hunt the crossways.


She raised him from an orphaned pup and gave him a life of love. With his last act, he thanked her.



All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.


"There is nothing you can do that I cannot simply deny."
—Ertai, wizard adept
To the Golgari, anything buried is treasure.

"Ideas drift like petals on the wind. I have only to lift my face to the breeze."
"It's not what you ask for, but how you ask for it."
They poured from the Skirk Ridge like lava, burning and devouring everything in their path.


"I've stood by Mishra's side from the beginning. I will not abandon him now."
"What is real can be unreal."
—Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen

Tamil had always wanted a closer look at a geist's lantern. Now he had an eternity to study one.

Chandra used jets of flame to lure hellions into the path of oncoming Eldrazi.
The Izzet signet is redesigned often, each time becoming closer to a vanity portrait of Niv-Mizzet.
"Why perch in the crow's nest when I can fly like the crows?"


"He displays a perverse charisma fueled by avarice. Highly dangerous. Recommend civil sanctions."
—Agmand Sarv, Azorius hussar


Closely linked to the Church of Dusk, the paladins of the Bloodstained order are devout to the point of fanaticism.


All the aether charts in the world can't compete with the trained eye of a talented scout.
"Those urbanist cobble-roaches won't know what hit them!"

"May the forces that took Argoth beneath the waves never come among us again."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
At sea, the Jhessian fleet strikes swiftly and decisively. On land, facing the elite cavalry of Valeron, its marines must rely on more cautious strategies.


Bant's armies are primarily composed of members of the Mortar caste, loyal commoners who haven't yet earned a sigil.

You love the smell of dusty tomes, the flicker of candles during late-night reading, and the old texts that bring to life the scholars who have come before.

The voice of a rakshasa is soft, its breath sweet. But every word is the murmur of madness.

"You eat plants; I eat plants. You eat beasts; I eat you."
—Drulvurg, troll king

"The one who conquers the mind is greater than the one who conquers the world."
As a scholar, she saw the sylex not as a weapon, but as a key to the past.
"The beauty of it is they never see it coming. Ever."
—Razzix, sparkmage


Like nature, the fern spirals back on itself, eternally seeking its own center.
Few of Rath's rivers follow a steady course, so many new channels are carved for them.


"Tread carefully! The last time I walked this path, half the snowdrifts were, in fact, sleeping trolls. I've never run so fast in my life!"
—Iskene, Kannah storyteller
Sent to find Sorin, Jace ventured to the vampire's ancestral home, only to find evidence of a deeper mystery.

"This creature is inadequate. Send it to the splicers for innovation."
—Malcator, Executor of Synthesis





Dragon birth lairs are littered with treasure to entice the young from their eggs.
"Beauty determines value, and we determine beauty."




"I have seen the true path. I will not warm myself by the fire—I will become the flame."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer



Somehow only the third-most dangerous ride in the park.
A thousand wings beating as one can choke the sky itself.

"No good will come from what you seek. Turn back now or suffer an ignoble death far from your home."
"You must pay for your sin in blood."
"I need to get back to Mercadia City," said Sisay. "We can get you there," the vizier answered. "Easily."
"There's nothing to worry about."
Two little goblins, out in the sun. Down came a griffin, and then there was one.
Her leadership forged the *Weatherlight*'s finest crew.
Hatred outlives the hateful.


An infinite journey in an infinitesimal time.
"I decide what stands in my way."
Phage became both executioner and savior, helping others to the same rebirth she had found.

Stripped and blasted by millennia of war, every planet eventually looks the same.




They're fun to train—if you like stubborn, aggressive, and fiercely territorial.


"Are the gods angry at our discontent with what they give us, or jealous that we made a thing they cannot?"
—Kleon the Iron-Booted

If there's anything a werewolf hates, it's a collar—especially Avacyn's Collar, the symbol of her church.

Lost at sea doesn't have to mean lost forever.
Books are like crops—they must be thinned for best yield.
The strength of law is unwavering. It is an iron bar in a world of water.

Those who survive the test bear a mark of power anyone can recognize.
It would be ill-mannered to decline his invitation. It would be ill-advised to accept it.


Death took his humanity but not his skill with the knife.

Her hunger will not be denied.
Moss-covered statues littered the area, a macabre monument to the Basilisk's power.

Many scholars believe that these creatures were the result of Urza's first attempt at mechanical life, perhaps created in his early days as an apprentice to Tocasia.

"Those who fear the darkness have never seen what the light can do."
—Selenia, dark angel
In times of war, only death flourishes.


"I run, and thunder follows."

"Only in our vulnerability is there true power, and that power is life itself."


"Savagery is the birthright of every creature that draws breath—or wishes it could."
—Karador, Ghost Chieftain
Fire finds its form in the heat of the forge.
The forest rose to the battle, not to save the people but to save itself.
The minotaur polis of Skophos boasts grand temples to the god of slaughter.
"I have seen far beyond this imperfect world, into a tomorrow that doesn't include you."
An explorer's reward is a view of tomorrow's possibilities.
"The study of magic began when the first mage taught herself to throw lightning."
—Naban, dean of iteration

Magistrate Ludy agreed to designate land for the brushstriders only after several broken windows and dozens of missing blini-cakes.
In its heart lies the secret of immortality.

Each night, gloomwidows cull fresh prey for their ravenous hatchlings.
A hungry lair of flourishing rot.
The best way to fight evil is with its own weapons.

The vaults of the Necron Dynasties contain all manner of esoteric artifacts, most forged long before many of the younger races even existed.
In a shaman's grimy hands, a concoction of dried Skirk Ridge herbs can become the face of panic.
"Give up these unnatural weapons, these scrolls. Heart and mind and fist are enough."
—Zyd, Kamahlite druid
Uthlon the Wise scandalized sphinx society, hooting the answers to riddles as he rampaged through Tin Street. Grangle, on the other hand, sat for hours, deep in thought, largely ignored by fellow goblins.
"Yes, I think 'toast' is an appropriate description."
—Jaya Ballard, task mage


An elocutor forces criminals to confess to the laws they merely intended to break.




In times of infestation and war, Zendikar favors the blades that strike in unison.

"Though I may soar, I could never fly as high as the dragons."

A spike and a maul are needed to crack their shells, but the taste is worth the effort.
Even the wasp knows how to pay the magistrate his due respect.

These small but intelligent Dragons and their Olesian allies held back the tide of Pashalik Mons's hordes of Goblin Raiders.
*DragonCon 1994*
"When your cities and trinkets crumble, only nature will remain."
—Garruk Wildspeaker





"A whole life, full of memories and experience, love and sorrow, drained drop by drop into this bottle. Could any feast be more glorious?"
You will scream out your innermost secrets just to make it stop.
Minds, like mountains, are never so grand and mighty that they can't be reduced to dust.

This whimsical automaton helps create beautiful murals, then stands guard as they dry.

The burglar turned, bowed, and dropped from the ledge onto her waiting mount.
"Why squabble for trinkets when we could be living large off all this gold?"
—Admiral Beckett Brass


"Not bad, but I can think of a better use for that."
Wolf riders hone their skills traversing the perilous rooftops, each dizzying step bringing elf and wolf closer together.

What the rangers thought were warning growls turned out to be nothing but monstrous snoring.
"(Z—>)90° — (E—N²W)90°t = 1"
Liliana viewed the attention of the angels as a testament to her power. Even so, they were an annoyance.

"I can no longer sit in my workshop and ignore the events outside. My hammers strike for the people of Ghirapur."

It claws at the earth in a vain attempt to reclaim what it once was.
"In memories, we can find our deepest reserves of strength."
It brings the two things weary soldiers need most: medicine and morale.

Under its mists, the earth sleeps.



"Defending the outer trenches, we strained our eyes in the darkness. All we could hear was the Drums' terrible pounding. Dobbs, on my right, broke first. Soon we were all heading for the walls."
—Corporal Peter Douglas, courtmartial testimony
When tempers run high, it's easy to lose your head.
"The day is mine! I sent three such creatures against my foe, then watched as my magefire popped her soldiers like overripe spleenfruits."
—Dobruk the Unstable, pyromancer
No lock of iron is a match for Vraska's will of stone.
Gold buys death. Death earns gold.
She reaches beyond the physical realm, touching the ideals from which all creatures draw their power.

"We'll see each other again soon."
—Egon, god of death
"The secrets of Phyrexia are expensive. You will pay in brass and bone, steel and sinew."
—Kaervek
No rest. No mercy. No reservations.

"The awestruck birds gazed at Wonder. Slowly, timidly, they rose into the air."
—*Scroll of Beginnings*



Some days it's better to stay inside.

"There will come a time when the gods will look at mortals and shudder."
—Uremides the philosopher
Not even the most scathing critics can break her concentration.
From a certain perspective, it's an inspiring story of overcoming obstacles.
As the nim storm across the plains, a lone priest stands in their path. At his silent gesture, the battle line breaks, and the tide turns.


"People laughed at my darts—once."
—Telim'Tor





Some timelines forever fray, branch, and intermingle. Others end abruptly.
Phyrexian smog clouds choked the skies, threatening creatures who couldn't comprehend the menace below.




The Agents of S.N.E.A.K.—Skilled, Notably Efficient Assassin-Kickers.
"Listen to the roar! Feel the thunder! The Immersturm shouts its approval with every bolt of lightning!"

Call one, call them all.
"Someone once said that Hipparions are to Warriors what Aesthir are to Skyknights. Don't believe it."
—General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox


Destiny exalts a chosen few, but even heroes break.
"Tracking a fangren pack is easy. Catching up to one is fatal."
—Viridian scout

"There are times when destiny calls forth a people and demands an action. *Now* is the time. *We* are the people. *This* is our action. Charge!"
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves


Oddly, no one questioned the Cabal's wisdom in hiring a zombie to work at the cemetery.
"Well, it also makes a very nice flower pot. . . ."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi machinist
The call of the wild is rarely a solo.
"The living don't ever stay living, and the dead don't always stay dead."
@-Jeddeg, philosopher of graves
"Whatever Yawgmoth marks, dies. There is no escape."
—Tsabo Tavoc, Phyrexian general

"Mindlessness is not weakness. When we are lost to hunger we are unstoppable."
—Drana, Kalastria bloodchief



Those who forget their past are doomed to be eaten by it.


Trained in the arts of stealth, the royal assassins choose their victims carefully, relying on timing and precision rather than brute force.
After fear and weakness rot away, that which remains is stronger than its living form.

"Which would you like first, the insult or the injury?"


"Joskun and the other constables serve with passion, if not with grace."
—Devin, faerie noble


One chill blast—the exhalation of the grave.
He raged at the world, at his family, at his life. But mostly he just raged.
"If it has wings, shoot it. If it doesn't, shoot it anyway."

"The raging gale fans the flames of righteous wrath."
Say hello to your new friend.
Despite their many forms, the Eternals worked in chilling harmony, unburdened by instinct or emotion.

Students who had seen Rayne argue with Urza were certain she had summoned it to make him seem warmer by comparison.
"I've walked every one of the Teetering Peaks and never set a foot wrong. I can get you to safety."
Its favorite treats are candied hands and sweet hearts.
"Left, right, left, right . . . hmm. Okay—left, left, left, left, . . ."
First, whispers of ancient days. Then, visions of things to come.
It can pass through solid matter—but that doesn't mean it's harmless.



From the Radix at the hub of the Tangle all the way out to the Edges of Forgetting, a Viridian elf's life is built around the temporary.

The rifted multiverse became a sea of conflicting realities, each peopled by possible versions of every living being.
Its power levels are off the charts.





Revealing the truth only deepened Tezzeret's curiosity for the secrets still buried.
The stitcher died years ago, but her dutiful assistant still keeps the laboratory well stocked.
The hounds' barks are a horrifying chorus of screams, moans, and whispers.



"I have no master. I am chaos."
—Maraxus of Keld
Whole again in honor and horn.


The insects keep the wurm's hide free from parasites. In return, the wurm doesn't eat the insects.
Having infiltrated the Lunarch Council, the Skirsdag await the perfect moment to strike.
A fool knows no fear. A hero shows no fear.
Valuing scholarship above all else, the inhabitants of the Ivory Tower reward those who sacrifice power for knowledge.



"I have always imagined my mother as such a woman, strong and wise."
—Sisay, journal
"The difference between a hellion and a volcano is that volcanoes don't get hungry."
—Sachir, Akoum Expeditionary House

"Conquering your first world is the hardest, after all. My power grew as I moved from world to world, taking anything that would make the next taking easier."
—Ob Nixilis
"The spirits of the mythic ones ever circle their beloved keep, forbidding entry to all who come with the heavy tread of hate."

Beauty is in the eye of the exploder.
Bred for battle in the Grand Coliseum, these wurms annihilated whole ecosystems when released into the wild.
"You are the grandest of all," said the archdruid to the trees. They became so proud of bark and branch that they suffered no creature to fly overhead or perch upon a bough.
"Hush."

"Merchants and politicians differ only in name."
—Queen Marchesa


"I thought its back was turned!"
"A centaur has two backs!"

Bones scattered around us joined to form misshapen bodies. We struck at them repeatedly—they fell, but soon formed again, with the same mocking look on their faceless skulls.




"They shall drink sorrow's dregs. They shall kill those whom once they loved."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer

"I'm not saying it's dangerous work. I'm just saying don't sign up if you have plans for your seventieth birthday."
A vision of home, and a glimpse of hope.

"Learn from your enemies, but do not tolerate them."
The wills of mortals shift as the tide ebbs and flows.

"In darkness is kindled the fiercest hope."
—Hadran, sunseeder of Naya
"Fools dig for water, corpses, or gold. The earth's real treasure is far deeper."



"If you hire a sell-sword, you'd better watch your back. Hire me, and I'll watch it for you."


When asked how many paths reach enlightenment, the monk kicked a heap of sand. "Count," he smiled, "and then find more grains."
"Come. Bring your brothers. Tonight, you feast on living flesh."
—Jadar, ghoulcaller of Nephalia



Nissa had only the space of a heartbeat to react, her instincts steering her blade.
"Only on the battlefield can we repay all the Order has given us."
"Test 37: Sentience module is still too strong. It's adding ears again."
—Development log of Willa, Yotian artificer

"Every street's a stage, and every screaming bystander's an audience."

The mind is a beautiful bounty encased in an annoying bone container.

Rumors quickly spread among thieves about a labyrinth without walls and a prize beyond all measures of worth.
"Be careful in your hunt. The clever little creature can steal your wards and lead you right into the werewolf's den."
—Britta, midwife of Gatstaf


"Rage is not the answer. Rage followed by fitting vengeance is the answer."
—Ajani Goldmane
Just as with a peach, the first bite is always the juiciest.
It feeds on things better left unknown, savoring the bitterness of lies and regrets.
They stay on the battlefield only long enough to consume the losers.






They are cautious with their body language and facial expressions. Any stray movement could betray the positions of the troops they protect and cost many lives.
"Oh, you must be mistaken. Hawks are solitary hunters, you see."
—Bunder Diedreck, ornithologist





Knowing the Hymn's power, the followers of Leitbur carefully guarded their pillaged transcriptions.

"Life's essence is a nectar unlike any I tasted when I lived as a mortal."
—Zul Ashur, lich lord

"The Founder Dragons brought the Blood Age to an end. It is an honor to serve them."

The first morning after acquiring her familiar, the wizard awoke with fleabites and mange.
The calligraphy of combat is written with strokes of sudden blood.



To those in tune with the Firemind, there is no difference between knowledge and flame.






"No doubt the arbiters would put you away, after all the documents are signed. But I will have justice *now*!"
—Alovnek, Boros guildmage
"Wherever you are in the city, you can feel the presence of the God-Pharaoh. Take comfort in that."
—Ukhat, vizier of initiation
The Cabal never expected its creations to create servants of their own.

Dragon birth lairs are littered with treasure to entice the young from their eggs.

"You can join me or feed me. Choose fast."
Some efreet abandon their homes in the volcanic Fire Rim to embrace the Jeskai Way and discipline their innate flames.


"Keep rising."
"Our archers made sport of it as it fumbled its way up the slag ridge. As it collapsed we thought ourselves safe, but the foul thing carried more than necrogen."
—Adaran, Tangle hunter
"You aren't invited."

Taste his power, hunger for his command.
It looks like currant jam, smells like death, and tastes a bit like both.

The only thing better than hitting hard is hitting first.

Rumors quickly spread among thieves about a labyrinth without walls and a prize beyond all measures of worth.



Small enough to penetrate the narrowest crack in a castle wall and numerous enough to hack apart a griffin.

"The appearance of these warped stones throughout the provinces is too pervasive to be random. More evidence is needed to determine the reason behind them."
—Tamiyo's journal

A smoldering storm of chilling fire.


"Hear me, nameless, and obey."
Fire finds its form in the heat of the forge.

During the collision of the shards, entire ways of life disappeared without a trace.


The cave floods with light. A thousand rays shine forth and meld into one.





Just because they have a club doesn't mean they're organized.






"This is my place of power. Nothing can take root here unless I allow it."
—Multani, maro-sorcerer

Eidren, perfect of Lys Alana, ordered hundreds of trees uprooted and rearranged into a pattern he deemed beautiful. Thus the Gilt-Leaf Wood was born.
In beauty-obsessed Lys Alana, one cut of her blade means the difference between a high society feast and raking through the dungheap for scraps.
The tiniest cough can be deadlier than the fiercest dragon.
Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.


A hive tyrant's synaptic link is the primary conduit through which the Hive Mind enforces its dominance over a hive fleet's lesser creatures.
"Here, there is only truth."
—Barvisa, Azorius emissary





The Auriok learned perseverance from their forebears. They learned justice from the leonin.

Even the brave have cause to tremble at the sight of Sivitri Scarzam. Who else has tamed Scarzam's Dragon?

As the Eldrazi spread, no secret that could give Zendikar's defenders an advantage was considered too dangerous to seek.



To the cultists, the sacred idol was priceless. To the adventurers, it was worth about two sturdy mules and a barrel of ale.
"I have seen things that would reduce a weaker person to blubbering and raving. Want to hear about them?"
—Vraska


"As a great whale dies, it flips onto its back. And so an island is born."
—Mariners' legend

The flame of anger is hard to douse once lit.
It scours the hills for living matter, savoring even the tang of poisonous fungi.


"We plant the seeds of doubt to harvest the crop of wisdom."
At the sight of the thing the calamari vendor's eyes went wide, but from fear or avarice none could tell.




"As Terisiare's mines ran dry, scrap metal became increasingly plentiful."
—*The Antiquities War*
They stop for nothing, not even the end of a battle.


Fear the knight leaping from the water into the air, weapon ready.
It is hunted, but not for the kill. The magic within draws others to its presence.
Life's circle has become inverted in Grixis. The same energy is endlessly recycled and becomes more stagnant with each pass.
The Wall of Bone is said to be an aspect of the Great Wall in Hel, where the bones of all sinners wait for Ragnarok, when Hela will call them forth for the final battle.


While pursuing the remnants of Yuan Shao's forces into the Wuhan Desert, Cao Cao was temporarily turned back by a fierce sandstorm.






"Were they to reduce us to ash, we would clog their throats and sting their eyes in payment."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
A power vacuum for the Azorius. A keepsake for Vraska.


Obscura spies rarely stay locked up long enough to make it to trial.

Lightning tethers souls to the world.
—Kor saying


"The best expedition would be an entire team of me."
The raiders' only warning was a whisper floating through the mist: "Trespassers."

"Up high! To the side! Down low! To the left! Other left! Over here—"
Any black mage could coax a Thraxodemon to inhabit a magical device.


The essence of night to harden the soul.


"The foot stone is connected to the ankle stone, the ankle stone is connected to the leg stone . . ."
—Song of the Artificer


"Each tooth is the length of a horse, and new ones grow in every sixteen days. Let's get a closer look!"
—Vivien Reid
To become king of the Goblins, one must assassinate the previous king. Thus, only the most foolish seek positions of leadership.
"I've seen them survive lava, trampling, and a moloch's digestive system. They just roll out and get on with their lives!"
—Gannet, Skysail zoologist
There is no greater bulwark than the Praetors of the Adeptus Custodes, the bodyguards of the Emperor of Mankind.
"Your mind was a curious mix of madness and genius. I just took away the genius."
—Jace Beleren
Sunastian has roots in both sorcery and swordplay; he has learned never to depend too heavily on the latter.
As the green sun crowned, Phyrexian prophecies glowed on the Tree of Tales.

"Why fear artifice? Is it not also of this world?"





Nephalia's tides obey an unforgiving moon.



He cares not for the disasters his storm brings as long as his path ahead is clear.

IOU one parashoot
—Urk, mogg fanatic
In the jungle of war there is always a Lion.
Vastly outnumbered, the Zendikari found creative ways to even the odds.
"Thoughtweft binds us together as one, part of an intricate pattern that would unravel if even one thread came loose."
"It's a cruel thing to give such a sad song to such a colorful creature."
—Sana, former Ahn-crop initiate
"One of my greatest teachers."
—Garruk Wildspeaker
A strong leader means a growing pack.
Mages often seek to emulate the powerful relics lost to time and apocalypse.
"I only had time to read half the spell, but I'm pretty sure this will work!"
Gackt came to regret keeping his pet toads on his head.


"A richer people could give more but they could never give as much."
"In a daze, I woke and looked upon the battlefield, where I could swear my dreams were laying waste to the enemy."
—Letter from a soldier

"I followed her song only to find it was a dirge."
—Crovax

"Do not try to negotiate with me, human. You want power? This is the price."
—Ormendahl

She remembers every word spoken, from the hero's oath to the baby's cry.
"You're in luck. I brought enough to share."
—Chandra Nalaar

Bottom feeders sometimes rise to the top.
"If I must die, I will encounter darkness as a bride, / And hug it in mine arms."
—William Shakespeare,
*Measure for Measure*
Days of planning. Weeks of building. Months of perfecting. Seconds of smashing.


"I was told these were standard issue. Do I look standard to you?"
The magic of the Boros patrols the streets even when their soldiers do not.
"We are many, and righteous."
"My next aerial design will use less metal."
—Hadaken, alchemist of Nephalia
"Wait, are *we* the decoys?"
"Her voice is the wilderness, savage and pure."
—Kamahl, druid acolyte
"Vengeance is the echo of the victim's own crime."
—Grensch, merrow cutthroat
"After Auntie brushed the soot from her eyes, she discovered something wonderful: the fire had turned the goat into something that smelled delicious."
—A tale of Auntie Grub

His mind whirled with grand plans, never thinking of what might happen if he were to succeed.

Deadly mushrooms litter these woods, each waiting for an errant footstep to release its noxious spores.

Kor have no concept of exploration. They return to homelands forgotten.
"About, about in reel and rout The death-fires danced at night; The water, like a witch's oils, Burnt green, and blue and white."
—Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
At the heart of Ish Sah, Geth stokes the dark fires of Phyrexia.
"United, our roar will level mountains."



It has no apparent purpose or direction. It simply drifts, buoyed by breezes both tangible and otherworldly.
"It will dodge your first arrow and flatten you before there's a second."
—Alcarus, Selesnya archer

Only the Eldrazi mind thinks in the warped paths required to open the hedrons and tap the power within.

A heart of light and a soul of darkness cannot coexist.
The metal filigree in his body glowed red-hot, and his flesh soon followed.





As they fought the Eldrazi, many vampires learned to live among humans. Others were unable to make the adjustment.





He endures the pain of remembering Krosa as it once was and hopes that a future generation will have need of his memories.
String, weapons, wax, or jewels—it makes no difference. Leave nothing unguarded in Scarwood.


"We expected the Argothians to stand their ground. We didn't expect the ground itself to stand."
—Myrel, Shield of Argive



The nim have become roving killers marshaled by whichever thane holds tenuous leadership.

Icatia's once peaceful towns faced increasing attacks from orcs and goblins as the climate cooled. By the time the empire fell, they were little more than armed camps.
"Well, at least all of that arm-waving and arcane babbling you did was impressive."
An ancient sea monster dragged the Murasa Skyclave under the waves, then smaller sea monsters moved in.


The good will be corrupted, the kind will be devoured, and all will be dragged into the bottomless Abyss.
"The surface world contains nothing I cannot take."
—The Lord of Atlantis
Inquisitors are taught scripture, philosophy, and the fine art of sharpening an axe.
"They shall kill those whom once they loved."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
As patient and generous as life, as harsh and merciless as nature.
"Cry havoc and let slip the dogs of war."
—William Shakespeare, *Julius Caesar*

The Astrotorium has never been a place for self-restraint.
"There is great wisdom in rushing headlong into combat . . . if you're prepared."
—Kenjek, captain of the Thousand Swords





The Wanderer sighed in relief as the Reality Chip tethered her wayward spark to Kamigawa.

It frequently predicts imminent death by devouring.
"When mortals die, they have family, friends, compatriots to mourn them. When the land dies, all else dies with it, and there is no one left to weep."
—Jacinth, Skyshroud ranger

A drop of humanity for a sea of power.
"I know just the person for that job."







Pricy baubles are no match for cheap tricks.

"The cracks widened, the shell crumbled, and Valor spread throughout the land."
—*Scroll of Beginnings*


The wisdom of the omenreaders is legendary. Creatures travel for miles through icy peril to seek their counsel.



Taj-Nar, throne of Raksha Golden Cub, destined leader of the leonin prides.
Rhonas's monument is home to a wider variety of creatures than anywhere else in the city of Naktamun—a feature most initiates fail to appreciate.

"When the skies are filled with flames, the brave shall step forward to quench them."
—Order prophecy


"It is my cry that wakes you in the night, and my body that crouches in the shadow. I am Tzeentch and you are the puppet that dances to my tune."
—*The Book of Tzeentch*



"How truly vast this city must be, that I have traveled so far and seen so much, yet never once found the place where the buildings fail."
By isolating liquid aether at room temperature, foundry hand Jitya Reyath has given us a glimpse of raw aetheric matter—the very stuff of the cosmos.
The locks on the cages of the damned are opened with keys of marrow, sinew, and blood.
Tracking it isn't the hard part.
The goblin word for "flying" is more accurately translated as "falling slowly."
"Please don't feed the beetles."
—Promenade warning sign
I cast a thousand tiny suns— Beware my many dawns.
In a world still pained from burns, some are born already scarred.
No spot in nature is truly barren.

Dimir mages put the lanterns to good use, creating shapeshifters and sleeper agents from mana foreign to them.
Like being trapped in a perpetual sneeze, faerie-dust poisoning is both exhilarating and agonizing.
The wizard who reads a thousand books is powerful. The wizard who memorizes a thousand books is insane.
"The Abzan replaced my savagery with a noble heritage. I would give my life for my House."
Progress comes at a price.

With only 70,000 men under his command at the battle of Guandu, Cao Cao was able to defeat Yuan Shao and his 700,000.





"Die. But die knowing that your pathetic life will yield a great bounty for me."
—Zul Ashur, lich lord
The more victims he kills, the more likely he is to get the right one.
As patient and generous as life, as harsh and merciless as nature.

When Chaos makes a tool that isn't specifically for destroying things, it's usually for finding new things to destroy.
His imagination soars from the depths of the sea to the heights of the heavens.
The most terrifying thing about the Craw Wurm is probably the horrible crashing sound it makes as it speeds through the forest. This noise is so loud it echoes through the trees and seems to come from all directions at once.




On Naya, ambition and treachery are scarce, hunted nearly to extinction by the awe owed to terrestrial gods.
On the continent of Tazeem, rushing waters plunge through narrow canyons into mist-cloaked lakes.

Endry was determined to teach his groundlings a few winged-faerie tricks.


The wise, the righteous, the mighty—the merchant feeds them all.

Its stature and stride increase with each step it takes.

"The tides have begun to ignore the moon."
—Tamiyo's journal
"If you can't pay your gambling debts, you just might be tomorrow's main attraction at the Grand Coliseum."


"The artificer assured me that the vial is strong enough to contain the dragon's breath. I just need to make sure to throw it far enough."
—Kunh Mei, last words


The shaman rattles not to inspire a battle fury but to drown out the shrieks of those fleeing the Eldrazi.
For the more refined vampire, breaking a victim's will is far more satisfying than simply taking their blood.

Goblins' motivational techniques are crude, but effective.
The path to change is forged in insight.

It takes "devouring a book in one sitting" to a frightening extreme.
"Where'd all the birds go?"
—Kaldrin, jungle sightseer
"You wear that shell as a mask. Now it's your coffin."
—Cabal cleric


"Let my passion spur your victory."


"These things will protect you while I'm gone, remind you of my love for you."
—"Love Song of Night and Day"

"In one future, I see glory. In the other . . . well, that's another story."
—Whisper, blood liturgist

"They'll never see me coming."



"Here lies Gond, hero of Safehold Taldwen. May he ever guide our quest."
"Subtlety is for lawmages and spies."





"The arc of my blade has carved a path of light for the peace that will follow."



Action: Show GLOWING BLUE GLYPHS being TORN out of a GRIMOIRE, leaving BLANK PAGES behind.
On expeditions through Ashmouth, the hunters of Devilthorn Lodge rely on the cleverness of foxes to counteract the mischief of devils.
With enough showmanship, even mundane items like playing cards or molecular teleporters can produce a mesmerizing spectacle.


The banished have come home to roost.

"My heart and Zendikar's beat as one. Together we will endure."
—Nissa Revane

"Guilt is not absolution. Regret is not justice. But it is right that you suffer."
—Extus Narr


Centuries ago, one man's vengeance plunged the world into ice and darkness.

Eating is all it knows.
"No flame, no horror can sway me from my cause."
He's set to compete in every race at the Fair, and he plans to win them all.


The wills of mortals shift as the tide ebbs and flows.

When defeat is near and guidance is scarce, all eyes look in one direction.
In the blur between metal and flesh, Memnarch found madness.
"At least it's a beautiful way to die."
—Erinis, gloom stalker
Fools surrender their sanity to his riddles. Even greater fools try to solve them.
"Your blood is quite pleasing. A pity there's not enough for both of us."
Two times the size, four times the smell.

It took the banning of temporal manipulation at Tolaria West to teach its students the value of time.




"On vile wings and bloody wind, the swarm will rise."
@-Skyclave inscription

She learned a tragic lesson that day: even the purest can be corrupted when the heart's emotions are twisted.
Beyond pain, beyond obsession and wild despair, there lies a place of twisted power only the most tormented souls can reach.


The mysterious purpose of two of the rings had eluded Esper mages—until now.





"The wilds are a garden tended by divine hands."
Its secrets once wrought the greatest artifice ever known. Now crabs loot the rubble to decorate their shells.

It destroys everything in its path, including the path itself.



"As we neared, Belfar proclaimed the wall to be made of glass and went forward to prove it. We had no choice but to pull his hands free from where he had touched it, leaving flesh palmprints on the icy wall."
—Tross, Vainus Expedition leader





"Study the great spirits of our age and those of the past. Prune secrets from the branching traceries of our lineage."
—Twila, Gilt-Leaf archdruid




Serra told them to guard Urza as he healed. Five years they stood.
"Any hotheaded cub can raise a sword in anger."

Only a madman could create such a door. Only an imbecile would open it.

"Once great literature—now great litter."
—Jaya Ballard, Task Mage

Prismari fosters a burning need to create.

The more unlikely the victory, the more memorable the success.
No one knows what she is watching, but she never takes her eyes off it.





Its hood blossoms as a warning: receive your gift, but stray no closer.

Karn felt more secure about his value to Urza when he realized he didn't need regular trimming.
"You've got about three seconds to get out of here before you get a faceful of metal."
"As long as we survive, we can rebuild."
—Basri Ket


In the ruins of Kroog, only anguish thrived.
"Um...oh...what was I saying?"
—Reveka, wizard savant
"Knowledge demands sacrifice."
—Tojira, swamp queen




"As long as my hand holds a blade, there's hope for a pure Mirrodin once again."

"These sailors on our shores are like the dinosaurs that plunder eggs from nests. They live on the labors of others."
—Itzama the Crested
"Just the thing for those pesky water mages."
—Jaya Ballard, task mage

"I'll have my revenge if I have to call on every force from above and below."

Entire platoons have mysteriously vanished from battle, leaving enemy weapons to slice through empty air.
Eight legs carrying endless phobias.
Its open mouth is a furnace blast that blisters the skin. Its smoking fists are meteors that split the earth.
"I am the feeder, the morsel that revives the starving."
—Seal inscription

"Serra built angels from the spirits of fallen warriors, but I believe a more mundane power source might suffice."
—Karn
"It was too fast, even for our veteran archers. They might as well have been blowing it kisses."
—Vulok, elvish archer
"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim."
—Sisay

"We don't choose who comes here. We choose how long they stay."




"We'll break their lines. The rest of you, follow!"



Once a century, the levelers rip through every corner of Mirrodin, obeying the commands of an unseen master.
Hatred is a potent ally, but an insatiable master.

Eldrazi are not the leopard's preferred prey, but they are better than no prey at all.




Everyone wants to talk about the elephant in this room.
"Lightning lives in everything, in living flesh and growing things. It must be set free."
—Rakka Mar

With matchless stealth, the River Heralds fought a running battle against the three enemy forces.


Massive, mindless, and imbued with one terrible purpose.


Law is the light of civilization.


In a rare display of ingenuity, the Orcs invented an incredibly destructive weapon. Most Orcish artillerists are those who dared criticize its effectiveness.
We encountered a valley topped with immense boulders and eerie rock formations. Suddenly one of these boulders toppled from its perch and sprouted gargantuan wings, casting a shadow of darkness and sending us fleeing in terror.

"You aren't invited."

Six feet of earth muffled his cries.

He can stir the gentlest spirit to wild ferocity.




Overnight, Elspeth was branded the most dangerous criminal in New Capenna.


"Can't see this airship crashing in the near future. Sturdy as a rock."
"For all I have lost, for all who have fallen, I will render you to dust."
—Jared Carthalion

The most terrifying thing about the Craw Wurm is probably the horrible crashing sound it makes as it speeds through the forest. This noise is so loud it echoes through the trees and seems to come from all directions at once.
Designed by the Magic community



Her fingers stiffened as the shrouded corpse stirred. Her final, ragged breath was one of triumph. "Return, my chosen, and grant our people victory!"








"You know I accept only one currency here, and yet you have sought me out. Why now do you hesitate?"
—Xathrid demon
As insubstantial as fear, and as dangerous.


Vedalken have six thin, agile fingers on each hand, giving them unparalleled dexterity.
"The world was not hostile to us—we were beneath its notice, and presented no danger."
—*The Invokers' Tales*
First the automatons reinforced depleted squads. Then they replaced them entirely.
"Only the weak imprison themselves behind walls. We live free under the wind, and our freedom makes us strong."
—Zurgo, khan of the Mardu

Maestros agents can lie low in high style at the opulent Shadow Hostel.

"What can be a stronger shield than concealment? Have you ever defeated an enemy you didn't know existed?"
—Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen
"Battles no longer served a purpose in Karakas." —Angus Mackenzie, *Diary*

Too chaotic for even the other warlords of Keld, Maraxus has devoted himself to serving as a hired killer for the sinister Volrath. A man fond of his work, he's more than willing to put in those extra hours needed to perfect his craft.



When they had the house checked for bugs, they didn't think big enough.
"Goblins bred underground, their numbers hidden from the enemy until it was too late."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV*

Any kithkin smith would love to catch a dieflyn for her kiln, relieving her of ever having to gather fuel again.
It converts the faintest surges of power from Mirrodin's core into usable energy, providing endless power for Memnarch's creations on the surface.
Age wears the flesh but galvanizes the soul.
Made of bone and boiled in blood, a Rakdos signet is not considered finished until it has been used as a murder weapon.

"A small price to keep such pretty things safe!"
"Just move very slowly, and for the love of Ula, do not get it mad."
—Chadir the Navigator

"Why squabble for trinkets when we could be living large off all this gold?"
—Admiral Beckett Brass



"Mine is not the warmth of compassion."
—Ertai, wizard adept

After the rape of Argoth Forest during the rule of the artificers, the Pixies of Argoth bent their magic to more practical ends.

"I feel in them a sense of duty and commitment, yet I can feel nothing else. It is as if their duty is to an empty void."
—Razia
Being one would be an honor, if the word "honor" had any meaning in Phyrexia.

He never asks why. Just who, when, and where.

"Taking down a dragon is easy. All you need is enough space to get in a good swing."
—Narbulg Nine Fingers

Erdur never thought of it as stealing. Treasure simply didn't deserve to be stuck underground where no one could admire it.
In opulent chambers behind closed doors, dynasties are made and broken but with a few murmured words.


Olka collected the evening mist for years, studying its secrets. Once she learned its essence, she could vanish with a thought.
"Even the bravest of warriors yet knows the dark clutch of fright upon his stalwart heart."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"Let them close the gates of Krov from dusk until dawn if they so choose. It matters not. My fiends shall yet rend their flesh from their bones."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
As long as it's never left empty, this magic pouch produces coins every dawn.




When a god's will is against you, the day never ends well.
The Izzet quickly suspended their policy of lifetime guarantees.

"All men have their appointed time; that's something no horse can change."
—Liu Bei, after being told that the Dilu brings its master ill fortune
One of the Oriq's most powerful tools is the mage hunter, a vile monstrosity created to seek out and snuff out the arcane.
"Survival rule 781: There are always more scute bugs."
—Zurdi, goblin shortcutter
Her subtle smile is suffused with venom.
"If their ears are to the ground, we will make them bleed!"
—Taklai, Kolaghan warrior
The engineers figured out a way to make the crashes power the ride itself. The energy surplus alone is enough to run the deep fryer.

"I welcome it. The pasture is cleared of weeds and the wolves are frozen solid."
—Lumi, goatherd

"Might doesn't just build empires. It protects them."
—Inti, Sun Empire knight
"Debt due! Debt due!" The thrull's screeching makes children flinch and debtors quail. "Debt due!"
"Mana lurks in all things, even in the depths of one's own heart."


Their rage can grow to such proportions that they explode in a cloud of fire.



"There is a place deep within my soul where no foe can intrude and no tyrant can conquer."
—Sarlena, paladin of the Northern Verge


"Respect the earth, for it will one day be your shield and another day your blanket."
—Liefellen, Quirion exarch



"A fine example of addition by subtraction."
—Deekah, professor of fractal theory



"The answer to life should never be death; it should always be more life, wrapped tight around us like precious silks."

"That? A minor test, nothing more. Incompleat flesh is weak."
—Jin-Gitaxias


If it can't be had here, it can't be had on any world.


"A mage must be precise as well as potent; cautious, as well as clever."
—Zur the Enchanter
"Good ol' rock," muttered Rhirhok as the shaking began. "Nice ol' rock . . . ."
Dosan's monks, deep in spiritual thought, could walk through the thickest of forests without leaving a mark, even the leaves beneath their feet unaffected by their passing.

"To the unskilled, it appears as blurred patches of distorted light. Few have seen its true form."
—Garruk Wildspeaker


The clouds grew thick, and then they grew teeth.

It glints with arcane truths to those who know how to glimpse them.


A friend in good times, a guardian in bad times, and a savior when all else fails.
Caught between life and death, between land and sea, between thought and oblivion.
Nobody knew what the relic did, only that it was growing louder.

"There are none alive that I cannot crush. There are none dead that I do not command."
"The hum of the universe is never off-key."
—Mystic elder
The viashino believe that the oldest mountains hate everyone equally.
For centuries, the minotaur polis of Skophos was unknown to humans. It remains unexplored.
Minotaurs go into battle hungry. The first sight of their enemies' blood sends them into a flesh-eating rage.



I live without food, stand without leg, wound without force, and am harder to fight than to kill. What am I?
—Femeref riddle

"Your father was a dear friend to whom I owe much. He wanted me to look after you, to care for you should something happen to him."

The most distinguished Lorehold professors are eligible to receive extended tenure, even beyond the limits of their own mortality.




"Your creations are effective, Sheoldred, but we must unite the flesh, not merely flay it."
—Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite
Her grand wedding had one goal: to unite the vampire bloodlines under her rule.








Stars shine, winds blow, dragons rage.




So-called "old wood" is rare in deforested Ravnica. Statues carved from it are said to house the last of the ancient nature spirits.
If the pig's blood drips on you, you're next on the chain.
"The Simic can grow anything out of a puddle of sludge. I just hope they never join forces with the Golgari."
—Teysa Karlov, Grand Envoy of Orzhov
"Is it worse to walk while dead, or to be buried alive? I have witnessed both."
—Crovax



His kind were once hunted to near-extinction. Now, under his protection, they rule the savannah.
It is said that the wind will blow the world past if you wait long enough.

"When you're on watch, no noise is harmless and no shadow can be ignored."
—Olgard of the Skiltfolk

All crave the Blessed Sleep. Few receive it.
Proper burial is a luxury Otarians can no longer afford.
"We can go into the dark hand-in-hand or alone. I know which I prefer."

Her instinct is as sharp as her blade.
"If you wish to die as a hero, you must first live as one."
—General Takeno

"I see the far side of tomorrow and the lost memories of queens. What do you wish to learn?"
Legend says a mighty angel appears to pilgrims in need who reach this lofty height.
The Patriarch dreams of vile plague.
Other Phyrexians have nightmares about the gargantua.

"You're just like me: ruthless, cunning, and ambitious. Obviously you're a threat."
—Basarios the Blade



Its ethereal hand confers a lifetime of experience with combat and steel.

"Writhe all you want, filth. It will do you no good."





"Not someone to pick a fight with, unless you're fond of pain."
—Halina, Dwarven Trader
"The elves use treefolk to drive us away. It is time to remove their tools."
—Vessifrus, flamekin demagogue
"Sorry, Great One, but did I hear correctly? I'm to entrust this powerful artifact to our *worst* researchers?"
—Flesdrim, Cabal servant

Swarms thrive in its nest, feeding on leathery bits of discarded wing.
The Gargantikari astroserpent hated the taste of merfolk, but the audience didn't need to know that.

It's hard to say which is more deadly: her bike or her bite.



As the glowing stone broke apart, so too did the last shred of the brothers' bond.
To merfolk, pirates are a nuisance. To pirates, merfolk are a threat. To the kraken, they're both appetizers.
"I swear, it's a shortcut."
The Azorius symbol stares down like a great eye, reminding visitors of the watchful presence of Isperia and her lawmages.
You will scream out your innermost secrets just to make it stop.



"I would not barter my soul for any of the filth that they called power. So they took it from me and damned me to solitude."
—Crovax

She wanted to inspire terror wherever she went. The demons happily granted her wish.


"I would have made a 'Spin-The-Bottle' joke if I thought anyone reading this had ever played the game."
—Bucky, flavor text writer



Everything will find its use in Phyrexia. Eventually.




It leaves its victims one sting closer to phyresis.
"The hard part isn't landing in the saddle. The hard part is leaping before you see it."

"I see a spark of pure rage. Soon that spark will spread from the depths of Kragma. Soon its fire will engulf the polis."
—Hira, street oracle

An unbound page is a riddle, free of cover and of context, a favorite token of the hegemon.
Like being trapped in a perpetual sneeze, faerie-dust poisoning is both exhilarating and agonizing.

Unsuccessful in their early battle for Montford, the orcs quickly tempered their bloodlust with cowardice.

"I have seen the horrors Kaervek has freed. My betrayal is certain—but of Kaervek or of Jamuraa, I cannot say."
—Jolrael


What wizards fear most is losing their minds.
"Feast, for your next meal may be your last!"

"Run!" screamed its living mouths. "Come!" cried its dead ones.
"The Black Rose doesn't tolerate weeds."


"From a sea of infinite possibilities, our choices create the future."
—Mu Yanling
Wildflowers here bloom not with the season but with the ebb and flow of magic.
"Follow me. Step lightly. And resist the urge to kick them."

"Eldrazi? Ha! Try walking through Zulaport at night with your pockets full. Now *that's* dangerous."
The Astrotorium is a zero-waste facility, meaning it deals with zero of its waste.
A passionate recruiter will win a war before the first arrow flies.

"Your words are meaningless. The rustling of leaves is the only language that makes any sense."
The fatal flaw in every plan is the assumption that you know more than your enemy.


Living metal encasing dying flesh.


They poured from the Skirk Ridge like lava, burning and devouring everything in their path.
Born with wings of light and a sword of faith, this heavenly incarnation embodies both fury and purity.
From Gaea grew the world, and the world was silent. From Gaea grew the world's elves, and the world was silent no more.
—Elvish teaching


On still nights you can hear its rotted teeth grinding tirelessly on scavenged bones.










"Courage is a proud and gleaming shield. It does not bend or hide from sight. To fight with courage, we must forge in steel."


"I am the blood of the ur-dragon, coursing through all dragonkind."
A wolf pup is always dangerous, because a wolf pup is never alone.
In the reflection, she saw the rough shell of the world sloughing away, revealing the truth shining underneath.
His quiet words fade into the night's chill, yet they burn into his listeners' minds with all the power of a thousand suns.




"What was once formed by masons, shaped by smiths, or given life by mages, I will return to the embrace of the earth."

We are many wicks sharing a common tallow; we feed the skies with the ashes of our prey.

"It's a difficult task to quarantine a plague that moves with the clouds."
—Esara, healer adept
"No matter how adept our artistic skill, our effigies can never hope to capture the vibrant beauty of a living elf. Perhaps that is truly why we mourn."
"Beware lest you lose the substance by grasping at the shadow."
—Aesop, *Fables*, trans. Jacobs


She'll swing a blade all her life, but never again for war.
The mask isn't meant to hide his identity. It's meant to keep the viscera out of his eyes.
Every grave cradles a recruit.


With skill and strength honed upon the prairie, Naxtil won his battles high above it.


The Mardu warrior was overjoyed when Tasigur set him free and granted him passage through the jungle. He failed to notice the Sultai leader's cruel smile.


"Everything will be put back in its proper place."
—Klothys, god of destiny

The bodies of its victims are the only tracks it leaves.


He vowed he would never rest until he reached his destination. He doesn't know how right he was.
Thallids nurture saprolings, entertain them, and eat them.
Mastery is achieved when "telling time" becomes "telling time what to do."
"But who is to guard the guards themselves?"
—Juvenal, *Satires*
Just as a changeling's influence can have dramatic effects, so too can its sudden withdrawal.




They say you leave a piece of yourself behind on Garruk's Wake. The janitorial bots can tell you that's absolutely true.

"The blood of Dromoka and the blood of my veins are the same."

Most myr monitor other species. Some myr monitor other myr.

Leave but a shred of root and it will return, bursting with vigor.
"Don't try to hit your enemies. Concentrate on the space between them, and fill the air with doom."
—Spear-Tribe teaching
Fate will decide whether it's a bed or a tomb.
"Guilty."


It allows those with dangerous weapons to pass. But not those with dangerous thoughts.




Caught between life and death, between land and sea, between thought and oblivion.

"It's not my job to ask our leaders about their experiments at the Knowledge Pool. It's my job to make sure they can continue performing them."

The Sun Empire bends nature—rivers, mountainsides, dinosaurs—to its unyielding will.



Zur remained aloof from Terisiare's suffering, intent only on his own perfection.

"The bones of allies grant wisdom. The bones of enemies grant strength. The bones of dragons grant life eternal."
Time rifts bring tunneling beasts of old into the hard, dry earth of the present. Most die there, trapped, but the mightiest burst through the surface.

"They encircled our patrol with the stealth of snakes, corralling us like livestock."
—Merrik Aidar, Benalish patrol

Lightning burns the dragon's path.


The continent of Guul Draz is a geothermal swampland reeking of heat and decay.

Sometimes an eruption in Shiv produces something more dangerous than a mere river of molten rock.

It emerges from the mists only to feed.


"All we know about the Krosan Forest we have learned from those few who made it out alive."
—Elvish refugee
Some vampires resorted to corpse trading after cathars burned their estates and drove them from their ancestral feeding grounds.
Nothing makes a mogg madder than having to wake up.
If bribery and intimidation fail, Marchesa turns to her favorite form of bureaucracy.


"Our feeble villages and tiny encampments stand only at the whim of the Roil."
—*The Invokers' Tales*
"They seek to break us. Let us show them our strength!"
A symbol of what Mirrodin once was and hope for what it will be again.
The ingenuity of goblins, the depravity of demons, and the smarts of sheep.



If you want to kill a lot of goblins, just make sure your defenses look like fun.
"I swore to take one head for each member of my family they killed. My task is nowhere near its end."
When the blood hunt lost its thrill, she looked for less tangible means of domination.
The suns of Mirrodin have shone upon perfection only once.
"Through your sacrifice of self, you become holy. Through your strength, all will be saved."
—From the Rite of Redemption


Some say magic was first practiced by women, who have always felt strong ties to the land.

Some geists imitate the lives they left behind. Others follow the dreams they never realized.
Heavy enough to withstand the Roil, leatherback skeletons are havens for travelers in storms and landshifts.

"Please tell me I'm hallucinating. I'd rather be crazy than here."
—Gorev Hadszak, Wojek investigator



In the cloudy skies and dim light of autumn, a flash of white wings is a reminder that better times lie ahead.








"It is hope, hooved and winged."
—Cymede, queen of Akros

Its open mouth is a furnace blast that blisters the skin. Its smoking fists are meteors that split the earth.

From Gaea grew the world, and the world was silent. From Gaea grew the world's elves, and the world was silent no more.
—Elvish teaching

She'll get revenge or die trying!

"You know it to be false, but when its claws find you, what you know won't matter much at all."
—Pol Jamaar, illusionist
Gentle hands of stone whisk the careless from the crumbling ruins of Pillardrop.
"We offer to Mogis the blood of the weak, and in return he makes us strong."
"The cathars have their swords, the inquisitors their axes. I prefer the 'diplomatic' approach."
—Terhold, archmage of Drunau

"We will force the Cabal into their own pits!"


"I'll guard this fruit and its seedling until the land is healed. My life now belongs to Dominaria."
"Some call me a thief. I prefer to think of myself as a discreet borrower."
—Dack Fayden, Planeswalker
Earth Elementals have the eternal strength of stone and the endurance of mountains. Primordially connected to the land they inhabit, they take a long-term view of things, scorning the impetuous haste of short-lived mortal creatures.


The oni leapt easily from peak to peak, toying with its victims, its voice a purr from the rumbling depths of nightmare.
When Malakir's surgeons failed, its death-shamans took over.
"Such a creation serves no purpose other than exterminating every one of us."
—Sadra Alic, Neurok strategist
"Every choice is a joy."
"Heat of battle" is usually a metaphor.
"It's always satisfying to stymie the best efforts of a rival, but the reactions of the Gruul are particularly amusing."
—Bori Andon, Izzet blastseeker
"...There was no trace/ Of aught on that illumined face..." —Samuel Coleridge, "Phantom"
"Carrion! Keep your distance. My blade will come to you!"
—Crovax

Every day, Order clerics contain as much of the Mirari's energy as possible, hoping to delay Otaria's demise.

Tazeem's embrace is harsh, but for those that call it home, nothing else will do.
The light of the rising star empowers the champions of tomorrow.
During their endless travels, the mages of the Goma Fada caravan have learned ways to harness both life and death.
The winds of change have a mind of their own.
A single lie unleashes a tide of disbelief.
Driven by masters more terrible than the Mercadians could imagine, the dark overseers would pay any price to keep their shipwrights working.


She follows the old tributaries built when merrows still shaped the tides.


"I don't care what they think!" Rootha snapped. "I know I can do better."
Mood: An efficient, well-designed machine.
Rogue mechanists once rummaged through the wastes of the Tidehollow, constructing unauthorized golems to threaten the hegemony of the sphinxes. The orbs put a stop to that.

"Glorious, to walk again across the savannah with my beloved."
—"Love Song of Night and Day"

"Time is a vigilant tyrant, but there are those who have broken free of its gaze."
—Laikas, Erunian monk
"Always carry two spears."
—Mokgar, Kalonian hunter
To some satyrs, only blasphemy is sacred.





Before a woman marries in the village of Sursi, she must visit the land of the Mesa Pegasus. Legend has it that if the woman is pure of heart and her love is true, a Mesa Pegasus will appear, blessing her family with long life and good fortune.
"They're numerous, attack in swarms, and are always hungry. No wonder we rats hold such a kinship with them."
"True power is controlling not only the hearts of your subjects, but their minds as well."
When wind marries sky, even the bride's veil sings her praises.
Our lives are etched on our bodies, memories illustrated on skin.



Because of their capricious nature, faeries can serve as living lenses for disruptive magic.





"Esper, like any work of art, can be truly appreciated only from a distance."
—Tezzeret
"Soulless demon, you are bound to me. Now we will both dwell in oblivion."

Only in mirrors do heroes find their equal.
"One cannot cleanse the wounds of failure."
—Karn, silver golem

It harmonizes with the essence of its master.

There's no difference between bone and crystal when it's piercing your throat.
"How did I ever let myself get talked into this project?"
—Toothlicker Harj, Orcish Captain
Snaking remnants of nature directed by a body of thought and progress, the oracles embody all that is Simic.

Her webs, spun from her own hair, reach from Nyx to the mortal world and even into the Underworld.
"The ravings of the mad are laced with eldritch knowledge."
Death arrives on tattered wings and stolen bones.
First the insult, then the encore.
"Despite their bravado, mortals are fragile. If Zendikar is to endure, its lords must save it."
—Drana, Kalastria bloodchief



It harmonizes with the essence of its master.
A mysterious kami will sometimes appear to overworked monks and offer them a warm, relaxing bath.



When does majestic become ominous?

Their denial reaches far into your future.
If you stare at the sun for too long, you'll lose your ability to see clearly.

"How tragic that greed eclipses beauty."
—Seton, centaur druid

Beacons along the borderlands are lit at any incursion from the wilds.
Nothing returns from the nightmare nests of Indatha unscathed.

Every life ends, but life itself never does.
"Be logical in all things. Do not allow instinct or passion to cloud your mind."
—*Volume II, The Book of Insight*




The mighty city of An Karras, with its rich history, built over thousands of years, fell in three hours.



The magic of the elves leaves its mark on the forest. The magic of the forest leaves its mark on the animals who live there. The animals of the forest leave their mark on all who trespass.
"They won't see your shadow or hear your breath, but they will feel your blade."


Her webs, spun from her own hair, reach from Nyx to the mortal world and even into the Underworld.
"Ringed by white stone, Terisia was a city of scholarship and knowledge, where magic promised a brighter future to a world devoured by artifice."
—*The Antiquities War*
"That half is yours. These halves are mine."
Every predator is something else's prey.
In the adrenaline-fueled chaos, she hadn't even felt the bite.

From the veins of a peasant to the sketchbook of a master.
"Overkill? This isn't a game of kick-the-ouphe!"
—Jaya Ballard, task mage
Thaumaturges of Theros have learned to weave their magic into the world around them, but it can be pulled apart strand by strand.
". . . inviting the soul to wander for a spell in abysses of solitude . . . ."
—Kate Chopin, *The Awakening*

"It lives . . . IT LIVES!"
—Ludevic, necro-alchemist
The wyrmling studied the ancient carvings and dreamed of a day when her own exploits would be immortalized in stone.

"The past and the unwritten are frozen. To understand their meaning requires heat."
—Arel the Whisperer
Kitesailing is a way of life—and without practice, the end of it.


"Undead flesh is dry and papery. A single spark and 'poof.' No more ghoul."

Funny how money and war travel so well together.

They only appear in emergencies, and emergencies never last long.
Each myr was designed to fill a specific role. This one, for example, was designed to stomp on other myr.
Lurking beneath the murky waters of Ixalan's rivers, sailbacks can rip a meal off the shore in the blink of an eye.
A partition between the hopeless living and the restless dead.



After the invasion devastated the Talruum and Hurloon tribes, the survivors began to search for other minotaurs.

"The Vanished must have sent it from beyond to aid us in this struggle."
—Kessla, Sylvok shaman
The dark opening seemed to breathe the cold, damp air of the dead earth in a steady rhythm.

Occasionally a skaab remembers too much of its former life. Luckily, there's an easy cure.

"What say you, my most trusted advisors? . . . Advisors?"
—Edra, merfolk sovereign
No human eyes have ever witnessed the birth of an apex monster.

"I would be kinder to my peers, Professor, but I simply don't have any."
"I will protect the less fortunate. I will love bravely. I will face despair and fight on. As a Capashen, I can do no less."
The truth came to Kumena like the Great River's torrent: the only way to keep his enemies away from the hidden city was to claim its power for himself.

As the shards merged into the Maelstrom, their mana energies fused into new monstrosities.


Martyred for worshipping her ancestors, she now walks among them.

The Moriok saw the myr as fellow scavengers, never knowing just who the myr were scavenging for.



"Maybe they wanted to be on the winning side for once."
—Matoc, lavamancer




"It's not really stealing. It's more like extended borrowing."
"We pray to Avacyn on high. On snow-white wings fearless you fly. Keep safe our souls. Keep safe our lives. May angels watch us from the skies."
—Children's prayer

Among the first allies Urza gained were the people of Kroog. As a sign of friendship, Urza gave the healers of the city potent amulets; afterwards, thousands journeyed to Kroog in hope of healing, greatly adding to the city's glory.
Viashino thrashes are led by elders who have survived countless challenges.

When a battlefield falls silent, it's rarely due to a cease-fire.
"I of all people know that memory is not a safe place to hide valuables."
—Jace Beleren




Anger is his greatest weapon, and he sharpens it daily.

Young artificers on Kaladesh let their imaginations run wild.
"I want to help Zendikar. Show me the way."
—Nissa Revane


Small enough to penetrate the narrowest crack in a castle wall and numerous enough to hack apart a griffin.

Some say magic was first practiced by women, who have always felt strong ties to the land.
Dragon lords of Jund rule by edicts of flame.
"My people are no longer slaves to the Eldrazi, beholden to the past. We will determine our own future."
"Birds know no borders! Why, then, should we?"
—General Varchild, in a missive to King Darien of Kjeldor


"Without Combat Medics, Icatia would probably not have withstood the forces of chaos as long as it did."
—*Sarpadian Empires*, vol. VI
After spending all day trying to track down a rare tome, you're about to give up when you hear your name whispered from a dark alley.
Larger and more cunning than most Goblins, Scarwood Goblins are thankfully found only in isolated pockets.
To some satyrs, only blasphemy is sacred.

The form of the sigil is just as important as the sigil itself. If it's carried on a medallion, its bearer is a master. If it's tattooed on the body, its bearer is a slave.





As the shards merged into the Maelstrom, their mana energies fused into new monstrosities.
Like many who dwell in Shadowmoor now, he was robbed of his better half by the Aurora.
Unpredictable as the sea itself, Water Elementals shift without warning from tranquility to tempest. Capricious and fickle, they flow restlessly from one shape to another, expressing their moods with their physical forms.

Rushwood is a living jewel that reflects its dwellers' hearts.
Like most creatures bent on total destruction, they rarely bother to double-check their targets.



"Buying old, worn out junk. Selling marvels of real value."


Forged by divine hands to wander mortal realms.
A song of life soars over fields of blood.
Noggles believe that they were the first race ever to walk Shadowmoor. They don't "steal." They just take back what's rightfully theirs.

It started as a mere drop of water. The Magic Mirror crystallized it into much more.
"Words of power never disappear. They sleep, awaiting those with the will to rouse them."

"I've been all over this world. I even remember some of those places."
"Hold your position! Leave doubt for the dying!"
—Tahngarth of the *Weatherlight*
"We've bred out the shortcomings of the species' natural form and replaced them with assets of our own design."
—Momir Vig






You have to hang around the graveyard if you want to catch the talking dead.
The shadow of the candle looms tall even as its light grows dim.

He has "friends" in places both high and low, and all seem to owe him favors.


"The last blast is the biggest."
—Sargis Haz, artificer
Before a woman marries in the village of Sursi, she must visit the land of the mesa pegasus. Legend has it that if the woman is pure of heart and her love is true, a mesa pegasus will appear, blessing her family with long life and good fortune.




"About, about in reel and rout The death-fires danced at night; The water, like a witch's oils, Burnt green, and blue and white." —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
What these devices lacked in subtlety, they made up in strength.
"I use maps to find out where explorers have already been. Then I go the other way."
—Javad Nasrin, Ondu relic hunter


"An angel appeared in the smoldering skies above the fray, her clothes as flames, her armor as fire."
—"Hymn of Angelfire"

"Memories fade and wither with time. If we do not nurture the garden of history, we may once more wander blindly through barren lands."
—Reki, founder of the Living Historians
She's an inspiration to everyone, even herself.

Every inferno begins with a spark.
Her hunger for power consumes what the fire cannot.
Aspiring to earn their place in the afterlife, acolytes train every day against those who fell short of that glory.
A king in Jund, a serf in Esper.
Pharika has written her secrets on its bones so that only the worthy may discover them.
Those who will not follow are doomed to lead.
It nurtures its masters' glorious future.

"Even without the spines, who would dare to touch it?"
—Desmera, perfect of Wren's Run
Legend says a mighty angel appears to pilgrims in need who reach this lofty height.


The kor send their thopter kites to see if the land is in a welcoming mood.
"The wise learn from successes as well as mistakes."
"The currents are strange today, and the fish are fearful. Something's stirring in the depths."
—Rathstaf, Kannah fisherman


"When the earth shakes, and their animals are swallowed up by the ground, perhaps they will think twice before attacking again."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
A Thran relic, it has spent ten thousand years doing absolutely nothing.
"No refunds. I cheated you fair and square."
"The memory of your existence will fade like the final stars of morning."
—Kaervek
They'll attack whatever's in front of them—as long as you tell them where that is.
I didn't think Mammoths could ever hold a candle to a well-trained battle horse. Then one day I turned my back on a drunken soldier. His blow never landed; Mi'cha flung the brute over ten meters.

"Let no trace of the vampires' foulness remain."


When it came to fighting an army of trees, even Mishra's best generals were stumped.

All orbital bombardment did was till the soil.
"My dragonlord is immortal. Most dragons are not."
—Kadri, Dromoka warrior
The hedrons awoke along with the Eldrazi, forming superstructures that radiated overwhelming magic.

"Ludevic's laboratory is a veritable wonderland. I have never felt so inspired."
—Stitcher Geralf
"I opens my mouth to catches the bugs!"
Ivold was aghast when his device revealed the full scope of the geist infestation.

"Their paths aren't random, but they don't float with the wind. Could they be following surges in crystalline energy?"
—Naireh, Ketria elementalist
Maestros agents can lie low in high style at the opulent Shadow Hostel.

". . . some sort of giant lizard-bat thing. Yeah, we shot it. No, nothing to clean up."
—Archelle, chief exterminator
"Be like the grazers of the Saruli. Keep your herd close, and stay alert for encroaching danger."
—Lalia, Selesnya dryad
"I fear no army or beast, but only the morning fog. Our assault can survive everything else."
—Lord Hilneth
"With this scepter, smite your enemies."
—Scepter inscription


The longer it patrols the smoldering crags of the Oxidda Chain, the more it adopts their fiery temper.


"Can they *do* that?"
—Imwita, Zhalfirin artificer, last words



They fell screaming into the depths of the chasm like so many pebbles tossed down a well.

In its center is a single red ant, a queen that regulates the hive's movements.
"Time and space are just new battlefields to be mastered."
Success at Valor's Reach requires not only individual skill but also the ability to merge that skill with a partner's.

"Prayer rarely explains."
—Orim, Samite healer

The slivers would survive, even at the expense of every other creature on Otaria.


In the moment of truth, it is as though time stands still, and the whale waits, suspended in the sky.


"Forswear the flesh and you will truly see."
—Jin-Gitaxias, Core Augur





I didn't think Mammoths could ever hold a candle to a well-trained battle horse. Then one day I turned my back on a drunken soldier. His blow never landed; Mi'cha flung the brute over ten meters.

2006 Vintage Championship Winner

Broken and punctured by dozens of Phyrexian portals, the angry sky began to spit lightning back at the world.




The sound it makes is indescribable and unsettling, but it does make a great clown.

"Creatures of the night dissolve like shadows in the light of faith."
—Thalia, Guardian of Thraben

Unicorns don't care if you believe in them any more than you care if they believe in you.

"Flourishing during the Ice Age, these wurms were the bane of all Kjeldorans. Their great size and ferocity made them the subject of countless nightmares—they embodied the worst of the Ice Age."
—*Kjeldor: Ice Civilization*
Not all who remember Urza do so with fondness.
Life is eternal. A lifetime is ephemeral.





A pangolin's scales are resistant to all sorts of damage and weaponry. Desire for them threatens to drive the pangolin to extinction.





Part tool, part weapon, part of the kor.








Dreams are tempting because one is so powerful in them. Dreams are dangerous because that power is a lie.
Once a century, the levelers rip through every corner of Mirrodin, obeying the commands of an unseen master.
"Let's add just a bit more stopping power."

Orcish lumberjacks spent the night sharpening their blades and resting for a day of labor. They awoke to find that the forest had been making its own preparations.




The Minotaurs of the Hurloon Mountains are known for their love of battle. They are also known for their hymns to the dead, sung for friend and foe alike. These hymns can last for days, filling the mountain valleys with their low, haunting sounds.
"Of all the tyrannies on humane kind The worst is that which persecutes the mind."
—John Dryden, "The Hind and the Panther"
"Walls crack. Buildings fall. Always the wilds return."
—Domri Rade
It took ninety-nine monks to weave the spell that trapped Yukora. Upon the death of the ninety-nine, the spell was broken, and the demon returned to the mortal world seeking vengeance for its imprisonment.
"Wirewood cannot hide great size. Only with speed and skill can we survive here."
The people of Amrou were scattered by war and driven into hiding. Scouts maintain the beacon fires that signal "return" and "home."

The light of hope blinded Pantor to the ills of the world.

"Its speed will be equaled only by the swiftness of my enemy's fall."
—Kaervek
Good at carrying things. Really good at knocking them down.


"I don't need to have the perfect plan. My foe just has to have an imperfect one."
—Jace Beleren
When Crosis roared, the battle ended and the slaughter began.








"The raging gale fans the flames of righteous wrath."



"Let nothing own the skies but the wind."
—Dejara, Giltwood druid
"Still, the pterodon chasing the clouds from its skies must bow to the great forest below."
—Mahuiz, Sun Empire archer
"Surprise is a useless, untidy emotion—the plaything of goblins and fools."
She crushes darkness beneath her charger's hooves.








"Jump! NOW!"

"You may enter, but leave those lifeless things of your world behind."
—Modruni, maro-sorcerer

"With rope, I can fly as far as the rope can reach. But with light, the sky is the limit."
Bone, root, and seed—the past, the present, and future in one handful of earth.


"The finest minions know what I need without me ever saying a thing."
—Liliana Vess
"A pretty toy. Now show me its tactical applications."
—Telim'Tor


"If you're as loyal as you claim, now is the time to show it."
—Queen Linden of Ardenvale






"No bird soars too high, if he soars with his own wings."
—William Blake, *The Marriage of Heaven and Hell*

Pricy baubles are no match for cheap tricks.




Whether the end comes swift or slow, it always comes too soon.
It's tethered not to keep it from fleeing but to keep it from eating everything in sight.




What crossed her mind defied Orthodoxy: could there be perfection beyond *compleation*?
"At this rate I fully expect to be replaced by a clockwork golem by year's end."
—Barrin

Initiates must train to resist the natural toxins they use as weapons.
"Wherever water is lacking, all things suffer."
—Autumn Willow

"The seas are vast, but the skies are even more so. Why be content with one kingdom when I can rule them both?"


In Lorwyn's brief evenings, the sun pauses at the horizon long enough for a certain species of violet to bloom with the fragrance of mischief.




"Another village, another angry mob. Why do I even bother unpacking?"



"Let your heels point you home."
—Ancient blessing

Hidetsugu held over a dozen oni in blood oath. At his touch, rocks scorched. At his word, cities burned.
"Death does not prevent us from service to our absent master. As long as Tresserhorn stands, so shall we."
—Chaeska, Keeper of Tresserhorn
With each grunt of pain from Haddad, Greel's grin widened.


In his hunger for power and knowledge, Urza dug deep into Dominaria's ancient past.

An organized and methodical reproduction.
"Why simply sit back and applaud the good ideas of others when I can improve upon them?"
—Elminster
"Here lies Gond, hero of Safehold Taldwen. May he ever guide our quest."
"They'll never see me coming."
Plowbeasts of Naya escaped their harnesses in droves, content to snack on the conveniently cultivated fields of Eos and Valeron.

"A creature of stone was never meant to fly. And I see the Ulvenwald agrees with me."
—Halana, Kessig ranger

He who hesitates is lunch.
In Mephidross, refuse doesn't last long—it's all scavenged, reanimated, or consumed.

The spread of its hood eclipses all hope.





"Send your champion. I could use a light workout."
"Reports of Gruul rioters in four districts. Start with the big ones and work your way up."
—Libuse, Boros sergeant
Kavu leaders instinctively protect their herds from harm.

There is only one fate left to those banished from the God-Pharaoh's city.



"It's always funny till someone gets hurt. Then it's hilarious."
"We were holding our own—until the ogre guiding us suddenly grinned and turned on our commander."
—Ivra Jursdotter, Sarpadian mercenary






"Wherever water is lacking, all things suffer."
—Autumn Willow
Less housebroken than housebreaking.
"Why would someone have built ... wait, never mind. Send it to the front lines!"
—Commander Grozdan
He wants to watch Ravnica burn, one soul at a time.
It gathers against the coming storm.
The form of the sigil is just as important as the sigil itself. If it's carried on a medallion, its bearer is a master. If it's tattooed on the body, its bearer is a slave.
"Even in single combat, I am never alone."
—Rafiq of the Many

It patrols the grafs for miles around Thraben, ensuring that the unhallowed do not wake for long.

The hellkites are artists with flames, painting the world with fire.


It leaves a trail of crumpled trees and dashed dreams.
"Don't worry, Gerrard," said Ertai. "I'm sure the crew will come to your rescue as quickly as they came to mine."
"There's no 'I' in 'team,' but there's a 'we' in 'weapon.'"


Underweight, underpaid, underestimated.
He knows the name of every elf born in the last four centuries. More importantly, they all know his.



The stature of the fighter matters less than the depth of the cut.
Teferi's legacy lives on in Tolaria through the study of time magic and a tradition of irrepressible mischief.

Urza threw himself into his research, pushing the boundaries of both possibility and morality.
"Why stop at the third eye?" came a whisper from the cup. "Drink more, and open them all."
The viashino had learned how to operate the rig through trial and error—mostly error.

Gruul territorial markings need not be legible. The blood, snot, and muck used to smear them are unmistakably Gruul.
While it possesses potent venom, the Giant Spider often chooses not to paralyze its victims. Perhaps the creature enjoys the gentle rocking motion caused by its captives' struggles to escape its web.
"Which is worse: nothing to defend, or no one to defend it?"
"From the clouds, you can see as far as the distant horizon. It's a reminder of the infinite possibilities of everyday life."
—Noboru, master kitemaker
Some fight for honor and some for gold, but the militia fights for hearth and home.
"Nature is a wonderful engineer but works far too slowly for my tastes."
"When all doubts have melted away, the worthy will meet the Hour of Eternity and earn a place at the God-Pharaoh's side."
—*The Accounting of Hours*



Druidcraft is a simple invocation to spirits of nature, promising a glimpse of nature's secrets.
"If the pen is mightier than the sword, just think what a giant tome could do!"

"Come on, it's not even that deep!"
—Gorin the Brazen

When necessary, myr can override and control any artificial object, as can their creator.


"They groaned, they stirred, they all uprose, Nor spake, nor moved their eyes; It had been strange, even in a dream, To have seen those dead men rise."
—Samuel Taylor Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
"Eternal glory awaits you, my child."


She was a ragged shadow of her living form, but she had lost none of her deadly prowess.

No earthly armor is protection against this sweetness.

"Such a lord as this—all virtues' height—Had never been, nor ever was again."


"The sooner you join Phyrexia, the sooner you'll forget your painful rebirth."
—Sheoldred, Whispering One
The first satyr to wake after a revel must search for the site of the next one.


The nesting bats of Kelinore sleep soundly while the sun passes, nestled among their grisly collections.






"Help! I'm not a zombie! Let me out!"

Farrel, a former priest, believed Icatia was far too complacent toward the Order of the Ebon Hand.
A drop of humanity for a sea of power.
"This is what glory looks like."
—Nicol Bolas



During the collision of the shards, entire ways of life disappeared without a trace.
To the novice necromancers, it looked exactly like a regular human grave.
From death she grows living grandeur.


"The dagger is just the distraction. I carry the real killer in a vial at my side."

"Artifice has always stood upon nature's shoulders. Let us watch nature take a turn."
—Freyalise




Above the cries, a phrase rang out: "You will all be saved."
Farrel and his followers became a formidable band of vigilantes, battling Icatians and followers of Tourach.



"Zeal is the sharpest blade, and piety the strongest shield."
"Choose your next words carefully. They will be your last."
—Phage the Untouchable

Though grimed with the dust of centuries, the ancient shrine was not unguarded.
"Down here, things don't stay dead."
—Lavinia
It is spoken of only in whispers, visited only by the desperate.



Even the clouds bend themselves to Memnarch's will, eager to swallow those who oppose him.


"We take only what we need to survive. Believe me, you will need this."


Members of the Living Historians don't simply chronicle the past; they embody it.
It's not slow. It's deciding whether to stomp you or gore you.

Its diet consists of fruits, plants, small woodland animals, large woodland animals, woodlands, fruit groves, fruit farmers, and small cities.

Oona grants her favored subjects a dream from her own guarded heart.

"Each syllable chills your veins. Each word rattles your mind."
—Cabal Patriarch



"As the climate worsened, some Thelonites turned to fertilizing with fresh blood in an attempt to keep Havenwood alive and growing."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. III*

The only way to finish the Trial of Strength is with a basilisk scale in hand.
"Kills and cooks your food in one easy stroke."
Into the light the good are welcomed, and with the light the evil are banished.

"Nothing in this world, not even magic, likes to be caged."
One breath of the geist turns veins to rivers of ice and freezes hearts midbeat.
"Take us home," she whispered, and the fox's eyes began to glow.

"Go find yourself a couple of friends, and bring me a blindfold. Then we might have a fair fight."
Mischief is its own reward.

"Sleep and dream, dream and snore,
While we fae complete our chore."
@-Fae rhyme

Life's too short to not do the things you love.


Embermages aren't well known for their diplomatic skills.
"Those who wish to invade our monastery, please take it up with my servant."
—Chandra Nalaar

Creatures displaced from time still turn up every year, stranded by the temporal disaster that once swept across Dominaria.
The bigger they are, the harder they avoid work.


"Her voice is insight, piercing and true."
—Ixidor, reality sculptor
Pray that it doesn't seek the safety of your lungs.

"This Tovolar is no brainless brute. He sends his howling minions to terrorize a village for months. Sleepless nights and fear take their toll. Only then, when morale is at its worst, does he strike."
—Barnes, village watch
"Let's find out how much your friends think you're worth."
—Gino, hired kidnapper
Flumphs siphon thoughts and energy from evil aberrations, and are often eager to share the dark knowledge they obtain with friendly adventurers.
"What some call obsession, I call the quest for perfection."

"Either I know just the spell I need, or I'm about to."

"We were not meant to have such terrible things. They should be left where we found them, if not destroyed!"
—Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi Heretic
A seething locus of reverent rage.
"Knew I'd find ye in trouble if I came out an' looked for ye!"
"I know they're unstoppable fighters created to harvest souls@-it's just they're so rude about it."
@-Kaya

"Have no illusions," Volrath warned Greven, "about free will."
Embermages aren't well known for their diplomatic skills.

"Not all of us have darkvision, okay?"

Izzet mages often acquire their magic reagents from dubious sources, so the potency of their spells is never predictable.

"Our underground archives grow daily, as our excavators and sages alike dig to uncover hidden wonders."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist





"We've run aground sandbars before, but today, a sandbar ran aground us."
—Kipkemboi, Kukemssa pirate

"There's a hole in your plan."
—Noyan Dar, Tazeem lullmage

Deep in the heart of Urborg lie massive volcanoes whose thick black smoke covers the land with perpetual darkness.

"The worthy shall hone a strong body to endure the boundless energies of the afterlife."
—Monument inscription
An innumerable pack is concealed in a single reflection.

On darkness feeding, in nightmares breeding.

"You can always tell who's new from the screaming."
—Tinua, Skirsdag cultist


"We are a single entity. Dissenters must be sutured into the Orthodoxy."
—Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite

They could agree on one thing only: one of them must die.
If you pick a fight with one kithkin, be ready to fight them all.
Senators of Azorius often hired agents to spy on the Selesnya. They were told to record every spore and root they saw, as each could become a deadly foe.
Ondu moas make wildly uncomfortable mounts, but for determined warriors, their speed is enough to make up for it.
"Within minutes, the strange device was indistinguishable from the other on my workbench."
—Tocasia, journal entry

A river even the merrow dare not cross.

As their roots soaked in a weak tea of bogwater and decay, the trees absorbed the essence of death into their living tissue.
Kithkin somnomancers enjoy the peaceful dreams wafting from their victims.





His fists fume with the decay of death, each strike a plague on the hearts of his enemies.

A master of tactics, the Lord of Atlantis makes his people bold in battle merely by arriving to lead them.

Its bite will take off more than a toe.




Nature's secrets can be read on every tree, every branch, every leaf.
"The entire murder scene was covered in dripping, oozing slime. No need for a soothsayer to solve that one."
—Pel Javya, Wojek investigator







"If I must die, I will encounter darkness as a bride,/ And hug it in my arms." —William Shakespeare, *Measure for Measure*




Before any major undertaking, a Cylian elf seeks the guidance of a visionary to learn the will of the gargantuan ancients.
The mysterious purpose of two of the rings had eluded Esper mages—until now.
"There is great wisdom in rushing headlong into combat . . . if you're prepared."
—Kenjek, captain of the Thousand Swords


The flesh of the Necrontyr is a memory so distant as to be nearly mythical.

Souls and steel, the essence of Mirrodin. Memnarch lacks one but has an abundance of the other.
"May starving fleas birth a thousand generations on your stubborn hide, cow!"
—Bruse Tarl, Goma Fada nomad
"I hear Halina's got a pony that can count to six—and likes to eat meat."
—Chandler
When tempers run high, it's easy to lose your head.
"Ghouls smashed the door, but I heard the call of the gryffs and knew we were saved."
—Ekka, shopkeeper of Hanweir



It glides over the landscape. It also happens to be one.
"My liege will lead and I will follow—to the battlefield, to the grave, and beyond."

Healers ultimately acquire the divine gifts of spiritual and physical wholeness. The most devout are also granted the ability to pass physical wholeness on to others.


Not even the most seathing critics can break her concentration.

Chasms of dueling energies course within her.



"Fear not what's under the bed. The toys are watching."
—*Beyond the Great Henge*




The heart of a golem gives life to more than just the iron husk around it.


"Yes, I think 'toast' is an appropriate description."
—Jaya Ballard, task mage

When Captain Nebula tragically destroyed the planet Blorb-12 in a parking accident, Myra compensated the survivors with lifetime passes.
"I am reminded of the fable of the silver egg. Its owner cracks it open to see what jewels it holds, only to discover a simple yellow yolk."
—Karn, silver golem


When angels despair, what hope can remain for mortals?
"The Ancestor Dragon appeared atop the clouds, amid shattering mountains and sundering earth."
—Jiang Yanggu's travelogue
So-called "old wood" is rare in deforested Ravnica. Statues carved from it are said to house the last of the ancient nature spirits.
The intensity of their glare was soon surpassed by the intensity of their attack.



'Twas in the bogs of Cannelbrae My mate did meet an early grave 'Twas nothing left for us to save In the peat-filled bogs of Cannelbrae.


"Rumors persist of dark deeds performed in the depths of Soldev. When will Dagsson heed the danger therein?"
—Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi Heretic


Blood is the oldest currency.

Beneath crashing waves lies an ocean of secrets waiting to be explored.
Ages ago, a party of elves took cover to let one pass. They're still waiting.
"Our glorious infection has taken hold."
—Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite
When nature calls, *run*.
Simun the Quiet filled the chest with his most precious thoughts. But in a fit of paranoia, he locked up the memory of where he hid the key.
He'd chosen a sunlit clearing with open skies and an ample brook. All that remained was to find a worthy sapling.
"Control the Halo and you control the whole city."
—Jetmir

Legend has it that Serpents used to be bigger, but how could that be?
"I can staunch their blood, mend their flesh, and knit their bones. But I cannot restore their hope."
—Tender-Hand, kitsune healer
"Everyone has a weak spot."


When the clever counterfeit was accepted by the hive, Volrath's influence upon the slivers grew even stronger.




"Knock, knock . . . too late."
"I welcome it. The pasture is cleared of weeds and the wolves are frozen solid."
—Lumi, goatherd
He had heard rumors of the cities—the constant noise, the stagnant air, the tainted water—and he had no wish to learn if they were true.
A dragon's scale can be carved into a mighty shield, provided you can procure a dragontooth to cut it.


"Make these shots count. The more foes we drop now, the fewer we'll have trying to kill us later."
Charts and instruments work fine, but the best navigators aren't above a spell or two to nudge the tides in a more favorable direction.


It's not just a feeling—you *are* being watched.
In matters of life and death, he trusts his gut.



"My sorrow: to dream of simple times, and wake in mine . . . ."
—Ola DaRiol, "Regrets"
"Worlds turn in crucial moments of decision. Make your choice."
—Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran royal mage

In life, they were a motley crew: farmers, lords, cutpurses, priests. In death, they are united in singular, benevolent purpose.
"The Krosan Forest lives, and druids are its seeds."
—Seton, centaur druid

Furious to find the workshop empty, the starving vampires flew into a frenzy.
"That's not really an A. It's an Æ. They changed it! Wait, don't—"
—Hœbrus Væm, Aerathi librarian, last words



Mephidross gives up treasure easily … as long as you take its place.

Crafted by lullmages and bound to the land, it alters itself to match the tumultuous terrain.




"Tread too hard in the forest and it will tread on you in return."
—Vivien Reid


"We're on the fortieth floor, with one window, no balcony. No one could possibly get in."
—Minosz, Orzhov chief of security
The whitest robes stain best.

The wolf's captor hid his fear, but he knew someday the runes would fail, the collar would break, and the wolf would remember his face.
Pray you never hear it chime.
The kor's pride in their independence has given way to a strong sense of community that embraces all of Zendikar.
"You see a bird, an oak, a packbeast. I see the potential for an army."
—Lalia, Selesnya dryad
"I'm always a little leery of anyone who offers to kill other people for free."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*
"The elves claim the canopy. The nacatl claim the mountains. I suppose you think we ought to stay on the jungle floor?"

"To prevent action is to prevent transgression."
—Azorius Arrester motto
"Our Mother! The sky was Her hair; the sun, Her face. She danced on the grass and in the hills."
—*Song of All*, canto 23


TODAY'S FORTUNE: ON YOUR DEATHBED, YOU WILL REGRET NOT EATING MORE PIZZA. (This fortune brought to you by our sponsor Saheeli Pie Pizzeria, located on the boardwalk next to Teferi's Time Twister. Bring this fortune to get 15% off any purchase.)
"We are not interested in the possibilities of defeat."
—Queen Victoria
"Although fragile, the aeolipile could be quite destructive."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. I*

Few among the Azorius have ever spoken with the sphinxes, but all have felt their influence.



"Your blood is quite pleasing. A pity there's not enough for both of us."
"There are some qualities—some incorporate things,/ That have a double life, which thus is made/ A type of twin entity which springs/ From matter and light, evinced in solid and shade." —Edgar Allan Poe, "Silence"



"Agios was felled by a minotaur's blade, but I swear I have seen him since—in the midst of battle, wherever help is needed most."
—Phrokos, soldier of Akros

Seacoast drakes have been known to follow ships for hundreds of miles, waiting to snap up garbage, bait, and the occasional sailor.






Players that don't read flavor text aren't too bright, sorta smell, and dress funny. But let's just keep this between us, okay? They can get kind of violent.
It appears only to those whose lives are ending, welcoming them to their fate.


"Despite their bravado, mortals are fragile. If Zendikar is to endure, its lords must save it."
—Drana, Kalastria bloodchief

"You have given all to your kingdom, dear knight. Serenity shall be your prize."
—Queen Lian



"Run!" screamed its living mouths. "Come!" cried its dead ones.



"Scour this world of these impudent trespassers!"
—Lord Traedrekkh of the Sekemtar Dynasty


Some use magic to spy through walls. Others use it to crush them.
For hydras, most problems can be solved with the addition of a few extra heads.
The Order of Saint Traft found new strength with Sigarda's support.

Even the wicked have nightmares.


"Resignedly beneath the sky/The melancholy waters lie./So blend the turrets and shadows there/That all seem pendulous in air,/While from a proud tower in town/Death looks gigantically down."
—Edgar Allan Poe, "The City in the Sea"


"Keep your heels down and bend at the hips as your mount takes flight. She'll do the rest."
—Anders, cathar drillmaster

The best of their trade know every bolt of their rigs, stem to stern.
It wants you to be its chum.
Even after Anafenza was executed, many secretly maintained their beliefs in the old ways.
Kuldotha, wellspring of molten metal, temple of the goblin horde.
Gravity is truly what you make of it.
It leaps from tree to tree, revealing the enemy's positions.
Strengthened by a thousand limbs.
During Kongming's campaigns against the Wei, his Shu troops rotated from the battlefront to the fields every hundred days.
"And what did we learn? Never taunt a porcuparrot!"

Urza always put Tocasia's lessons on resource-gathering to effective use.
"The scourge of Skyshroud is airborne once more."
—Oracle *en*-Vec



Marit Lage lies dreaming, not dead. When will she awake from her icy prison?


"I've gotten close enough to a giant to smell his breath, but none has ever so much as spotted me. I wonder how long my record can extend?"
"From the clouds, you can see as far as the distant horizon. It's a reminder of the infinite possibilities of everyday life."
—Noboru, master kitemaker
"Our death-arrows flew in high arcs towards the aven. And then . . . nothing."
—Coliseum guard

"The primary weapon is nothing more than light. It shows them what they are, and they burn of their own accord."
—Aurelia
"Strength it has, but at the cost of a continuous supply of energy. Such failure can bear only one result."
—Execution order of Endrek Sahr, master breeder

"Ya can eat it or ya can weave it, but ya can't fight in it."
—Zeki, Reef Pirate

Enthusiasm can be tempered in the furnace of the earth.

Merrows skulk the silty bogs around the Wanderbrine, their very thoughts stained with evil.

"Landing zone is clear. Activate and deploy!"
Kuldotha, wellspring of molten metal, temple of the goblin horde.


The Temur believe three things only are needed in life: a hot fire, a full belly, and a strong companion.
Dragons scorn the weak, even among their own kind.

"We wield the fires of rage. War is our blood and destruction our birthright."
—Crimson creed

Forged from what it forges.

". . . Dry-walkers die
We feed on sweet flesh . . . ."
—*Rootwater Saga*

"There is no afterlife. Not for me, and not for you. So think again before getting in my way."



"Eldrazi? Ha! Try walking through Zulaport at night with your pockets full. Now *that's* dangerous."

A chain of lies as strong as steel.


"No angel bars our ascent. Emeria waits above!"

While it possesses potent venom, the Giant Spider often chooses not to paralyze its victims. Perhaps the creature enjoys the gentle rocking motion caused by its captives' struggles to escape its web.
"The same power that drives the river ever onward flows through the roots and branches—to me."
Travelers bathe in the falls to wash away curses from the pucas who lurk nearby.
"Two muffins are baking in an oven. One muffin says to the other muffin, 'It's getting hot in here, huh?' The other muffin says, 'Aagh! A talking muffin!'"

Chains of leaping fire and sizzling lightning laid waste the artificers' handiwork, sparing not a single device.
Woven from strands of griffin mane and pegasus tail.
An undead snake doesn't bite in self-defense. It hungers as any zombie, never sated.

After the Consulate's defeat, the forges were opened to all. Now inventions pour forth from Ghirapur as freely as molten metal from the foundry.
"Hear me, stone, root, branch: be the fist of this land. Turn back those who trample upon your domain."
—Song of the Shaper
"To truly know something, you must become it. The trick is to not lose yourself in the process."

". . . Zhong Hui and Deng Ai next led armies west: / And to the Cao, Han's hills and streams now passed. . . ."

Chosen by Heliod, Daxos approached the pegasus without fear, and rode it without saddle or reins.






"Break their formation! Thin their ranks! I'm right behind you!"
Aboard her ship, the *Dragon's Smile*, Kari follows no one's rules but her own.


"Someone knows where the king is. They can't expect to keep it a secret from us."


A snap of fingers, a snap of teeth.
"When we of the Northern Verge claim a mount, no peasant's nag will do. It must be as strong as our virtue, and must join us of its own will."
—Sarlena, paladin of the Northern Verge


The sacred feathers of the pegasus are said to have healing powers.
"I don't know where my destiny lies, but I know it isn't here."

As easy to stop as it is to comprehend.



Beauty is in the eye of the exploder.




Some worlds possess a hidden core where life's essence constantly surges.



"A perfect fusion of nature and artifice."
—Irsi, Kujar gardener
"We fight not for Avacyn, but for her ideals; not for the church, but for its people."
—Thalia, Guardian of Thraben
"Come. Bring your brothers. Tonight, you feast on living flesh."
—Jadar, ghoulcaller of Nephalia




In bleak Tizerus, all hope crumbles in your grasp.

"The tiniest mouse speaks louder to me than all the festival crowds on Tin Street."



In Ghirapur, even the lowliest residents live in lavish surroundings.
The Obscura reserve their keenest blades for traitors in their midst.

"We are the flicker of the flame and its heat, the two sides of a single blade."
An Atarka dragon's exhale cooks what its inhale consumes.
"Inspiration is found by looking outward."
—Oviya Pashiri, sage lifecrafter


Pretending to be inside an invisible box was easy enough for Brug. It was finding the invisible door that caused him problems.

Not content to nudge vases and chill drawing rooms, some geists muster spectral armies to claw at the hearts of the living.


"I've got a little surprise for you, beasties! Come and get it!"

"If you make me spill my drink, you're buying me a new one."
"I did not think I would understand the cold filigree creatures of this world, but they too are governed by the laws of nature."
—Nissa Revane

Only those who have proved themselves worthy are granted a dragon's scale.

War paint made from kolya fruit heightens senses and lessens fear. Unfortunately, fear is usually what keeps you alive.
"A surly beast, the kranioceros will raise its defenses at the smallest threat. Stay out of sight and downwind, or you'll disrupt its natural migrations."
—Ebrel, godtoucher mentor
What would you exchange for a cosmic secret? Any payment is a small price for insight.
Created by the vedalken to guard Lumengrid, the drones' empty eyes look beyond the Quicksilver Sea.

The people flocked to the glittering parade, turning their backs on the threats in the shadows.
"The bones of the past will tell their tales—if you know how to speak their language."
—Savra
As tireless as her mount, a skyhunter's vigil is measured in days.
You continue to mutter and complain as you trip over yet another gnarled root. From behind the nearest tree trunk, something mutters back.
Urza's metathran children were conceived, birthed, and nurtured by an integrated system of machines.

Some patriars pay massive sums for exotic pets that can give their posh, predictable lives an edge of danger.
"Don't stop till your horns come out their back."


The land knows no difference between the graves of commoners and nobles.
When it walks through Krosa, trees step aside, leaves take wing, and the ground shudders.

Some said killing the thallids only encouraged them.


Slonk was struck by lightning twenty-seven times before he got the idea. Another forty-three hits and he'd perfected it.

It helps to have an extra direction in which to run.




"Twice I have let the Legacy slip away. Never again."
—Karn, silver golem
"It is a slaughter, the death of a sea. Never speak of it again."
—The Lord of Atlantis
"Yawgmoth's corpse is a wound in the universe. His foul blood seeps out, infecting the land with his final curse."
—Lord Windgrace
"There is no place like a rooftop laboratory in a lightning storm. It's where genius strikes."
—Renna, Selhoff alchemist




From each seed, a world. From each world, a thousand seeds.





Death eventually wiggles toward us all.
Though you may see the same bones, you'll never see the same skeleton twice.






Its wings shimmer with dreams absorbed from its enemies.



The toymaker frowned in bewilderment. None of his creations had ever sneezed before.





"It is Freyalise, walking on the world."
—Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order

"You think you can stop me?" hissed Tsabo. "I think I can kill you," replied Gerrard.






"Even a dragon is humble as a kitten if it thinks itself a slave."
"Dig over there, you bolthead!"




"In these bloodstains I will find the fingerprints of our oppressors."
—Anowon, the Ruin Sage
"And the ignorant shall fall to the squirrels."
—*Chip 2:54*

"There is elegance in all the Ojutai do—even their killing."
—Kirada, Silumgar enforcer

Nature doesn't walk.
To the sorrow of all, its dark reach grasped and crushed those who guarded its silent vigil.


When she performed, she was on fire, but in a good way.

With no memories left to compare to his present situation, Andalum was finally content.
„Sie verlangt keinen Gehorsam. Doch die Natur lauscht ihrer Bitte, und die Antwort enttäuscht nie."
—*Enzyklopädie von Endres*, „Naturzauber"
The Consulate keeps watch at each of the eleven bridges to ensure that the market remains a haven for commerce, not for con artists.
The shade tracks victims by reverberations of the pipes, as a spider senses prey tangled in its trembling web.
"Control the Great Conduit? You might as well try to divert a river with your hands."
"As peace should be—gentle yet unstoppable."
—Augustin IV

In a culture of beauty, the most beautiful are worshipped as gods.
Hatred outlives the hateful.


"I have re-created a Thran portal at last! Before I inform Lord Urza, I'll test it myself."
—Oryan, Urzan artificer, final research note


The blades of a Sultai assassin stab like the fangs of a dragon.


Every elf in Shadowmoor is charged from birth with a terrible duty: to strike back against the ugliness and darkness, even though they are all around and seemingly without end.

Between stitchers, cultists, and scavengers, corpses are in high demand.

"The tools of the past will help us forge the future."

Hey, wake up!
—Mogg secret password

". . . Near death in Baidi, having reigned three years, / Bei sadly placed his son in Kongming's care. . . ."
"Aza'gorod, the Nightbringer. The embodiment of death. A killer of stars and of worlds."
—Illuminor Szeras
After spending all day trying to track down a rare tome, you're about to give up when you hear your name whispered from a dark alley.

Silent as winter snow, it seeks wild places unspoiled by the walking dead.


It's all fun and games until someone loses an eye.
"And that's when it was discovered that boggarts have just half a brain."
—*The Book of Other Folk*
As Gerrard made his escape, the wurm covered his flight by helping itself to three great mouthfuls of merfolk.

"Madness and genius are separated only by degrees of success."
—Sidar Jabari

The shadows of death fall over everyone in the end.
Without warriors there can be no war.
Every footstep is a prayer, every road a temple.
"So the vulture said to the griffin, 'You gonna eat that?'"
—Azeworai, "The Ugly Bird"
Those who raged most bitterly at the world in life are cursed to roam the nether realms in death.

"Born under the moon, the second child will stumble on temptation and seek power in the dark places of the heart."
—Codex of the Constellari


A thousand years removed from her home, her news of war had lost its context, but not its relevance.
"I see all things as they truly are! I see . . . decay in all flesh, and betrayal in every heart."


"Aren't there boggarts enough in Lorwyn? Couldn't it turn into a sheep? Or a sunflower?"
—Olly of Goldmeadow

There is no height above Grixis that is free from the stench of death.
Phyrexia's spiral of consumption grows ever wider and darker.
"Hmm … maybe lotuses this year."


The might of an army with the restraint of a child.



Once an angel, now an abomination.

On loan from a private collection, this unique mechanism extracts power from a carefully prepared gemstone.

The destruction he causes is nothing next to the chaos in his mind.
"Not by age but by capacity is wisdom gained."
—Titus Maccius Plautus, *Trinummus*
As she charges into battle, her arcane tattoos stir and crawl like fiery serpents.

If a baloth isn't hungry, it's dead.
Urza always put Tocasia's lessons on resource-gathering to effective use.
Etched on Tel-Jilad's trunk is an entire history of Mirrodin—except for an expanse near the ground scrubbed smooth by an unknown hand.


These beings embody the essence of true heroes long dead. Summoned from the dreamrealms, they rise to meet their enemies.



Atarka goblins meet their demise as readily as their Temur counterparts did, but usually under big, winged shadows.

Forged for victory in a time of despair.
"My criticism of the Izzet is that their impulse for learning seems too much like impulse and too little like learning."
—Trigori, Azorius senator
Built with neither a way to steer nor a way to stop, the juggernauts were simply aimed at an enemy's best defenses and told to charge.




"I write upon clean white parchment with a sharp quill and the blood of my students, divining their secrets."
—Shauku, Endbringer

There were no tombstones in orochi territory. Slain warriors were buried with a tree sapling, so they would become a part of the forest after death.
"Born under the moon, the second child will stumble on temptation and seek power in the dark places of the heart."
—Codex of the Constellari



It is madness that drives men to seek forbidden knowledge, and madness has given it form.



Lorians treat trees and prey the same way: by ripping them limb from limb.

A hollow dog is never empty. It is filled with thirst for the hunt.


Automated units are deployed to stabilize merge sites deemed too dangerous even for trained intercessors.

"Few natural forces are as devastating as hunger."
—Kaysa, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order
"The law has its place—as a footnote in my spellbook."
—Siyani, fugitive mage


"Ruhan would never agree to such terms."
—Ruhan of the Fomori
First the automatons reinforced depleted squads. Then they replaced them entirely.

Spilled blood always begets more of the same.



Like most features of Grixis, the obelisks that remain from the time of Alara now exist only for dark exploitation.
The goblin word for "vacation" translates roughly to "a battered landscape of noise and violence."
Fallaji soldiers hated seeing loved ones' faces among the transmogrants. Ashnod devised a solution.
The best cure for a big ego is a little failure.


"As the climate cooled, many Elves turned to Thallid farming for food, while the Hunters honed their skills on what little game remained."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. III*


"I do not lead. They do not follow. We walk together."

A cyclops has two moods: angry and asleep.


In the feudal days of Icatia, finding the Rainbow Vale was often the goal of knights' quests.

"'Do you know, I always thought Unicorns were fabulous monsters, too? I never saw one alive before!' 'Well, now that we *have* seen each other,' said the Unicorn, 'if you'll believe in me, I'll believe in you.'"
—Lewis Carroll



"All animals—even humans—can be herded. The trick is to make them think they choose their own destination."
—Mangara
Leave but a shred of root and it will return, bursting with vigor.
"Our ancestors brought down a Phyrexian portal ship, then built our town on its hull. We're pretty proud of that."
—Alene of Riverspan


Only one vault was great enough to hold Emrakul.

Made of bone and boiled in blood, a Rakdos signet is not considered finished until it has been used as a murder weapon.
The Arbiter is a conduit of justice, a will so disciplined that it dispenses justice without ego or remorse.

Leave but a shred of root and it will return, bursting with vigor.
Only extraordinary performers are invited to grace the grandest stage in New Capenna.



Embermages aren't well known for their diplomatic skills.
"Don't fret, infants. It wouldn't have worked anyway."
"I'm not nearly as bothered by being outnumbered as I am by their foul stench."
When they're done pummeling each other, the fighters relax companionably in the springs, warming their sore muscles.

"In times like these, be particularly wary of those who claim they can save your soul."
—Alena, trapper of Kessig
Sometimes an eruption in Shiv produces something more dangerous than a mere river of molten rock.

The trouble started when a street urchin bet a goblin he could ride one until the clock on Shilbo's Tower struck thirteen.
Pia's passion was directed at the big picture—at making real, lasting change.

Without Embereth's courage, the realm would falter and fall.
"The hermit dies. The outcast dies. The lone wolf dies. Only those who stick together survive this world."
—Uros, Pendelhaven elder




Each commander looked at the others and wondered who would be first to break the alliance.




The Nightmare arises from its lair in the swamps. As the poisoned land spreads, so does the Nightmare's rage and terrifying strength.
The World Spell thawed their icy graves, promising rest in soft, quiet earth at last. But Heidar called them to duty for a twisted cause.




"Healing is a matter of time, but it is sometimes also a matter of opportunity."
—D'Avenant proverb






"In times like these, be particularly wary of those who claim they can save your soul."
—Alena, trapper of Kessig
"Beast. Defiler. The source of all my pain."
—Ihsan's Shade




"Death is tyranny. Like all tyranny, it must be opposed."
It teaches *you* to play dead.

Seen through Rakdos eyes, a cruel betrayal is a hilarious stunt.
Infinite possibilities contained in a finite space.
When he reaches for his key ring, you should be running for the exit.
When it wriggled closer to a thrum of slivers, their talons hardened and glinted in the sun. One took a playful swipe at a tree trunk, and its new blade cut clean through.
"We can wait like helpless children for a hero, or we can gather our courage and *be* the heroes. Who's with me?"
"It offers but a taste of the power that the shadows have to offer. But even that is a heady wine indeed."
—Ratadrabik of Urborg
"It is *not* sad," Radiant chided the lesser angel. "It is right. Every society must have its outcasts."

His mind whirled with grand plans, never thinking of what might happen if he were to succeed.




Sometimes quantity, in the absence of quality, is good enough.
When memory is torment, oblivion is bliss.
Elves believe the hydra-god Progenitus sleeps beneath Naya, feeding on forgotten magics.
"There is no power too great to be used in the defense of our ancestral lands."
"As my hands touched it, I realized that I had not found it—it had been leading me here."

It lingers near the outposts of the Makindi Trenches, inadvertently granting another layer of defense.

Cut off from the kakuriyo by the destruction of their honden, the zubera sought new ways to bring their secrets home.
When Belzenlok's lieutenant Yar-Kul grew too ambitious, the Demonlord transformed him into a maggot. The frog that ate the maggot grew and grew, until a ravenous spirit burst from its body.


"whirrrr . . . beep . . . click . . . click?"

Snaking remnants of nature directed by a body of thought and progress, the oracles embody all that is Simic.

Trapped on Ixalan, the Planeswalker Angrath is the only minotaur sailing the seas. No matter how many ships he captures, he cannot break free.

Death is a generous author, always willing to grant a stirring final chapter.
The boggart hopped carelessly among the roots . . . until the roots woke up.



"In the game of conquest, who cares about the pawns if the king yet reigns?"
—Geth, keeper of the Vault
"Yes, it's huge and strong and breathes fire. But we're smart!"
—Tadith the Wise, last words

As they fought the Eldrazi, many vampires learned to live among humans. Others were unable to make the adjustment.
"Monsters dwell in every heart. We only think civilization tames them." ―Euphemia, Nexus watcher
"That cruel being brings shame to all her fellow Dwarves and misery to all the land. She is Sengir's daughter in spirit if not in blood."
—Reveka, Wizard Savant
The bears had been isolated on an island for hundreds of years, until the island sank and the bears didn't.
"Now, remember: Under no circumstances should you utter the word 'geyser' in the same room as—oh, blast it!"
—Bindlehaim, Upper City merchant
A true scribe devotes an entire lifetime to the creation of a single volume, a masterpiece as unique as its maker.
"Every question has a proper answer. Every soul has a proper place."
"Take inspiration from your enemies, and make their strengths your own."
—Alesha, Who Smiles at Death


"The best things in life are free. Money, for instance."


Made from its wearer's hopes, the mask ensures that those hopes will be fulfilled.


"Choose one to heal, one to harm, and one to grant you the prudence to use them."
—Miotri, auratouched mage
It took all its strength to contain the fire within.





"Avoid anything that scuttles, scrabbles, or shambles."
—Opar, veteran guide
When no falcons fly, beware the sky.
—Femeref aphorism


Hedron lanterns fend off more than just the darkness.

"Violence is the food it craves. Feed it if you dare."
—Doriel, mentor of Mistral Isle

For cryomancers, studying the Ice Age isn't just an academic exercise.


"Just imagine what's waiting around the bend. Adventure. Discovery. Riches for the taking. This is why I sail."
—Captain Lannery Storm
"The most disappointing thing about learning telepathy is finding out how boring people really are."
—Teferi, fourth-level student

"I want to help Zendikar. Show me the way."
—Nissa Revane

As malleable as molten steel, but as dangerous as the finished blade.





"To show geists pity is to prolong their agonies. Whether they know it or not, they seek the Blessed Sleep, and we are to give it to them."
—Mikaeus, the Lunarch



"Mowu was wary that day, as though he sensed the danger ahead."
—Jiang Yanggu's travelogue
Some fiendish mage had created a horrifying wall of living flesh, patched together from a jumble of still-recognizable body parts. As we sought to hew our way through it, some unknown power healed the gaping wounds we cut, denying us passage.


Don't insult a Talruum unless your mount is swift.
—Suq'Ata saying
The elite of Ojutai's brood, the skywise see their enemies as puzzles to be solved.






The Auriok have learned through constant struggle that allies are more precious than water.

If you stop to listen, you can hear it grow.
With their usual prey scared off by werewolves, the wolves of the Ulvenwald adopted inventive new hunting techniques.

No one knew if they'd been lurking under the sea all along, or if they'd been created by the Phyrexian overlay.


The songs of angels are perceived not as words in the ears but as stirrings in the soul.
"How do the vinebred feel? Fah! We do not ask the puppet how it feels when the puppeteer bids it dance."
Labyrinths of tunnels beneath the streets of the Caldaia offer an ample array of discreet routes for enterprising smugglers.

"Merciless to the point of psychosis. Let's give him a job."
—Zelinas, Orzhov recruiter


"If you must go out at night, bring a mob."
—Master of the Elgaud Cathars

Known for their hit single "Your Wait from This Point Is Seven Hours."

The Astrotorium offers fine dining at establishments such as Time Wok and Grilliana's.


In the ruins of Kroog, only anguish thrived.
"If the whole world burns, I'll never grow cold."
It slips silently through the still waters of the Labyrinth of Memories to feed.


The buccaneers scaled the sides of buildings as easily as they boarded enemy ships.
"Let's err on the side of glorious mayhem."
"When the kumo attacked the monks' sacred shrine, a mournful toll for help echoed through the forest. Thus began the Battle of Silk, which would last six years."
—*Great Battles of Kamigawa*




Sometimes the weight of the world on your shoulders is a literal one.



A banner for bonds of blood or belief.
"Another failure," grumbled the toymaker. She slammed the door with such gusto that she failed to notice the eyes watching her.

Reinforcements *and* refreshments!
"The first birth celebrates life. The second birth mocks it."
—Mystic elder
"In your misguided attempt to subvert the law, you have eloquently explained why the law must exist."



"Without the protection of Feroz's Ban, I fear the Homelands are lost."
—Daria
"It is our duty to bring the Blessed Sleep to the dead, even if they resist that gift."
—Grete, Order of Saint Traft







"From up here we can drop rocks and arrows and more rocks!" "Uh, yeah boss, but how do we get down?"
"Attention, valued patrons. The Tilt-o-Squirrel is now closed."
—Astrotorium public address system
Predicting the future is a messy business.
"There are two ways for me to pass this gate. One involves you remaining conscious."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*

Servants tend to the garden meticulously, ensuring that Upper City residents aren't bothered by the messier parts of nature.

In the coastal states of Jhess and Valeron, "tortoise" is a synonym for "stubborn."

Fusing intelligence with the power of undeath requires inspiration of the darkest kind.

"Verdant bloom does exist. It merely hides for its own safety."
The nightstalkers' little game of tease-the-squirrel suddenly took an unexpected turn.


Moss-covered statues littered the area, a macabre monument to the basilisk's terrible power.


"All glamers lifted, all lies revealed, all flesh exposed."
—Awylla, elvish safewright




The Izzet learn something from every lesson they teach.


"Don't try to bribe them. They'll take your gold *and* your liver."
—Volo's field notes





"The hardest thing is finding the right ingredients."
The air was filled with the cracks and snaps of flesh hardening as the new sliver joined the battle.


"Where did *she* come from? More importantly, are there more like her?"
—Gideon Jura
Zombies work best when they're fed appropriately, so it's prudent to let them eat on the job.

"The timeless, tireless jaws of nature shall one day devour us all."
—Sildark, artificer of Omu





"My Pete Venters theme deck is nearly complete. Then I shall be unstoppable! Bwahahahaaa!"
—Pete Venters

It is unwise to insult the god of the forge. It is also unwise to stand near anyone else who has insulted him.


The brothers' rivalry escalated into all-out enmity, and Tocasia paid the price.


An avatar he sculpts of wisdom and strength.
"All are welcome in the angels' light."
It loathes all tastes but two: spells and flesh.



High-ranking plaguebearers of Nurgle's realm ride into realspace mounted upon Rot Flies—colossal daemonic insects whose appearance is so repugnant it scars the mind.

Kerrick's corrupt domain swelled like a blister on Tolaria's skin.

"The large brass claws worn by some Sarpadian Orc tribes were among the least feared weapons ever known."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV*
It bends not light but mana, aligning its chaotic currents into the sharp angles necessary for the mystic's purposes.

"I see you're out of the wall."
—Nahiri



He controlled the zombies even before his own death; now nothing can make them betray him.

Backstabbing is common within demonic cults. So are front- and side-stabbing.




Accurate information is a precious commodity in times of war.




"Great books are meant to be read, then read again backwards or upside down!"
—Ettovard, Tolarian archivist





"Here, you take it!"

The sky is the dragon's throne, the seat from which it issues its fiery decrees.


Pseudodragons are favored companions of wizards, prized for their cunning and curiosity.




Soothing whispers invite travelers to step closer, closer, closer . . . until they vanish soundlessly beneath the surface.


A thousand years of growth, harvested in minutes.

No one in the Conclave acts alone.






Liliana always knew Jace's illusions would come in handy.
Out of the blackness and stench of the engulfing swamp emerged a shimmering figure. Only the splattered armor and ichor-stained sword hinted at the unfathomable evil the knight had just laid waste.
"The blood of the weak shall be the ink with which we scribe great Yawgmoth's glorious name."
—Stronghold architect, journal

"Strike those abominations down. Let their names rot with their remains."
—General Kudro
Grapplers hunt in packs, driving their victims over steep mountain cliffs.
Michiko could not sit idly by while Kamigawa suffered for her father's actions.

It watches over every absence.


"Nature can't be stopped. It rips and tears at Ravnica's tallest buildings to claim its place in the sun."
The upside to not thinking about the consequences is that you'll always surprise those who do.





Their home uprooted by a giant, the gang of boggarts mourned their old stomping ground.
"Eenie, meenie, minie, moe . . . oh, why not all of them?"
—Jaya Ballard, Task Mage



"Proximity discouraged. Do not approach."
—Vulshok field guide

"Monsters dwell in every heart. We only think civilization tames them." ―Euphemia, Nexus watcher

"You can't learn to enjoy life's amusements in the pages of books. You must seek them out in earnest."

"We are never without guidance, if we but seek it."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter

"Those who endure in the face of suffering, those whose faith shines long in evil days, they shall see salvation."
—*Song of All*, canto 904
Out of the blackness and stench of the engulfing swamp emerged a shimmering figure. Only the splattered armor and ichor-stained sword hinted at the unfathomable evil the knight had just laid waste.
"Steady, recruit. We fight in the light of justice. We cast no shadow."



"Violence is the food it craves. Feed it if you dare."
—Doriel, mentor of Mistral Isle
"In Rath," the priest said, "there is even greater need for prayer."

Orzhov prisoners are steeped in a blackened brew that robs their souls of strength. Patriarchs drink that brew to extend their own lives.
"A keen mind wields an army as a deft hand wields a sword."




The litany of the infernal on his flesh pulses to the beating of his dark heart.
"To make a prairie it takes a clover and one bee,/ One clover, and a bee,/ And revery."
—Emily Dickinson


"Holy places are no longer sanctuary from death, and death is no longer sanctuary from anything."
—Thalia, Knight-Cathar


Sometimes the smallest things make the biggest difference.

When defeat is near and guidance is scarce, all eyes look in one direction.
"Our enemy is nothing less than the end of all life. We shall not want for allies."
—*The War Diaries*
"Can you build a fire? Track a deer? Identify killer trees? Then you'll never survive Kessig without me."
The refuge's defenses allow new recruits to see lesser Eldrazi up close, steeling their stomachs for what's to come.
"Let my wisdom give you wings."

2010 Vintage Championship Winner
"Kjeldorans should rule supreme, and to the rest, death!"
—Avram Garrisson, Leader of the Knights of Stromgald
"The echo of silence is music to my ears."
Innistrad is a place where dreams invade the mind and mere shadows exact a terrible toll.




"The Knowledge Pool knows. Memnarch understands."
—Janus, speaker of the synod
"As Horus once besieged the Sol System, we shall bring the rotting Imperium to its knees."
—Abaddon the Despoiler
Urza's metathran children were conceived, birthed, and nurtured by an integrated system of machines.


Among the first allies Urza gained were the people of Kroog. As a sign of friendship, Urza gave the healers of the city potent amulets; afterwards, thousands journeyed to Kroog in hope of healing.
With a reckless leap into the pilot's seat, Hirori went from smallest kid on the block to biggest hero in the city.


"I trust the instincts of any beast over the advice of any human who presumes to be an expert in the art of war."
—Rinshel, elf insurgent
Their war forgotten, the nations of Bant stood united in the face of a common threat.



There are old goblins and ambitious goblins, but very few old, ambitious goblins.
Jaharg discovered that the shapes and symmetries so pleasing to the sculptor's eye also yielded a well-balanced bludgeon.
From the eyes up, it's solid bone and stubbornness.
"My world is corrupted beyond cleansing. I must prevent this from happening to others."
—Karn


The Earth herself lends her strength to these walls of living stone, which possess the stability of ancient mountains. These mighty bulwarks thwart ground-based troops, providing welcome relief for weary warriors who defend the land.
"Drench these golden streets in the blood of our enemies."
For the Phyrexians, death is not an end, nor a one-time occurrence.

These spirits of the air are winsome and wild, and cannot be truly contained. Only marginally intelligent, they often substitute whimsy for strategy, delighting in mischief and mayhem.
With such great footsteps, everything is within walking distance.
"What has been looted can be restored. The church lives on within us."



"Death couldn't contain the slivers. What made us think we could?"
—Riptide Project researcher
It still stares accusingly at Memnarch, though millennia have passed since he separated the eye from its body.




A flickering beacon of righteous corruption.
"There are two ways for me to pass this gate. One involves you remaining conscious."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*

"Ah, I remember my first death."
—Zarkuu, necrosavant









"I wouldn't call what they have here a justice system. More like an auction."
—Elspeth
"There is great wisdom in rushing headlong into combat … if you're prepared."
—Kenjek, captain of the Thousand Swords

"He is judge, jury, and executioner because he killed them all."
—Bishop Cawle of Elgaud
Action: This is a squirrel who eats everything.
It lingers near the outposts of the Makindi Trenches, inadvertently granting another layer of defense.
"Your arrival was expected...and unwelcome."
"Be still."
—Azor
The oil sloshes against his skull as he nears his destination: the Frogtosser Games and the lighting of the Flaming Boggart.



"The awestruck birds gazed at Wonder. Slowly, timidly, they rose into the air."
—*Scroll of Beginnings*

"Big furnace like this can reduce anything to ash. You got something you need reduced to ash?"

"Give up these unnatural weapons, these scrolls. Heart and mind and fist are enough."
—Zyd, Kamahlite druid



The kavu might be above you
—Llanowar expression meaning "keep an open mind"

The storm rages and the earth breaks.
Five rivers encircle Theros, flowing with waters more ancient than the world itself.

Politics is just a subtle form of mind control—and cephalids are master politicians.
Gerrard grinned and drew his sword. "This won't be a fair fight," he called to his crew. "They should have brought a second ship!"

The person who finishes a journey is rarely the same as the one who starts it.


Maybe a little *too* convincing.

"For some, perfection is but a single moment when form and purpose converge."
—Rona

Though Serra is long dead, her legacy of grace and kindness will live on forever.
In a stunning act of diplomacy, Yasova Dragonclaw ceded a portion of Temur lands to the Sultai. Her clan protested until they saw she had given the Sultai the breeding grounds of the krushoks. They hadn't realized she had a sense of humor.
A baloth only cares about the many things it eats and the few things that eat it.

Hunger is like the sea: deep, endless, and unforgiving.
Be it ever so crumbled, there's no place like home.
For every eye gouged out, two blinked open.


Why did the chicken cross the road? To die in the name of science.




"What use is a stake or holy symbol in the hands of a coward?"

Knowing the hymn's power, the followers of Leitbur carefully guarded their pillaged transciptions.
Strixhaven forbade all magic from the Blood Age, so that is where Extus began his research.
In the reflection, she saw the rough shell of the world sloughing away, revealing the truth shining underneath.
The wurm's weave
—Elvish expression meaning "plowed fields"
The rainbow seen above the Great Lake of Cloud Dream just after the rain is nothing but the vivid-colored flying fishes' ritual dance.


Like storm water through the segments of bamboo, the spell followed the links of magic. Then it destroyed them.
Serpentine locks shape ornate rocks.
The turning of the tide always begins with one soldier's decision to head back into the fray.
"Send your champion. I could use a light workout."
During the brothers' childhood, Tocasia took them to explore the sacred cave of Koilos. There, in the Hall of Tagsin, Mishra discovered the mysterious weakstone.

The upside to not thinking about the consequences is that you'll always surprise those who do.
For a moment, objects of pure mana glimmered in the wonderstruck boggart's hands. In the next moment, they were in his mouth, as he chewed contentedly.
It's harvest time.
"There are some qualities—some incorporate things,/ That have a double life, which thus is made/ A type of twin entity which springs/ From matter and light, evinced in solid and shade."
—Edgar Allan Poe, "Silence"


The mysterious purpose of two of the rings had eluded Esper mages—until now.
"You see our world when you shut your eyes so tightly that tiny shapes float before them."
—Lyna, to Ertai



An emblem of a secret guild, the Dimir insignia is seen only by its own members—and the doomed.


Death is no excuse to stop working.
"Human tenderness is simply weakness in a pretty package."


The investigator felt a pinch on his ankle. When he looked down, something glittered in the sand.










Gisela cornered the murderous demon among the graves of the dead villagers. "A fitting end," she murmured as she raised her sword.
"It was probably a lousy spell in the first place."
—Ertai, wizard adept
"The desire for its magic horn inspires such bloodthirsty greed that all who see the unicorn will kill to possess it."
—Dionus, elvish archdruid

"The Origin Query will wait. We must ensure we survive to return to it."
—Pelyus, vedalken ordinar


In the light of its gleaming blade, the faithful shine and the wicked cower.



There is always a rabble to be roused.

"She will come back to me."

When Asha left Bant, she ensured that the world would have protection and order in her absence.

If you stop to listen, you can hear it grow.
Depending on your point of view, the seal represents a proud guardian of the natural cycle or one who has sold her soul to darkness for eternal life.
The hippo grows wings to fight the condor.
—Nantuko teaching
The vedalken always put their best thought forward.

Not all heroes die in armor.
"What goes up must get stuck."

"We are all decaying, always in a state of near-death. One moment without breath and we begin to break down."
—Cevraya, Golgari shaman



"There are so many of them. It seems they've just been waiting for someone to serve."

"Nothing is truly your own. It is his, whether you know it or not."
—*The Seer's Parables*
It hides the face and protects the soul.
"You cannot bar the path of gods. You can only divert their journey for a while."
—Sensei Hisoka
The mouth must be pried open before rigor mortis sets in. Otherwise the returning soul can find no ingress.

While Kaya is guildmaster, Teysa waits patiently at the center of the Orzhov web of power.
As the bounty on Massacre Girl rose, so did the number of imitators.
The floating city of High and Dry hasn't yet sunk under the weight of gold, but it's not for want of trying.
A beacon in the night, a dream in the fog.
There is a sanctuary that reveals itself only to those graced by the *eludha*—the mystical connection between bonder and monster.
Where the geometries of the world collapse, a master of the Æther can harvest power beyond comprehending.
"When riding Erebo's Whip, remember to keep your arms, legs, and any strange flailing appendages inside the vehicle at all times."
His mind chose solitude, but his heart disagreed.

"I have trained in all three schools of magic."
"An army has filled the valley, but it's not like any army I've ever seen. There are no tents, no fires, no horses . . . just a sea of bodies, writhing and moaning, as if a pestilent village were sent to invade us."
—Onean scout
"Do they seek knowledge or wealth? Are they bandits or benefactors? It depends on who is chanting the tale."
—Nikou, Joraga bard

The mist was thick, cloying, and constricting. Shiro fought his way to fresh air only to look back and see his comrades fallen on the battlefield behind him.

To look upon one is to surrender every last shred of self-will.
Rip through enough dirt and you'll eventually find something edible.
"To a creature like that, we must seem like, well, bugs."
—Dars Gostok, Firefist captain
Some spirits cling to one person, feasting on the growing fear until a final moment of all-consuming terror.


"Heed the lessons of our time: the forms of water may move the land itself and hold captive the fires within."
—Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran royal mage
Yavimaya lights the quickest path to battle.

"Forget your human ancestors. You're part of my family now."

"This trinket will gain you admittance to some painfully exclusive gatherings."
—Exava, blood witch

"Control them? No. I gird them in armor and let them loose."
—Yacha, Otepec huntmaster
"Another day. Another avenging angel. Another clump of feathers to toss in the trash."
—Liliana Vess

Every world is an organism, able to grow new lands. Some just do it faster than others.
The Akroans fashion their helms to honor the dragons, not to protect against them, as that would be of little help.


"Swords cannot reach far enough. Chains cannot strike hard enough. An eternal dilemma, but a simple one."
"Wow, it's even *bigger* than I thought! Awesome!"
"One who ruled willing subjects would need no such protection."
—Adriana, Captain of the Guard



"Close your ears to the voice of greed, and you can turn a gift for one into a gift for many."





The more you pay for the lesson, the better you'll remember it.
"Brago's tomb was first erected as a formality. Now it stands as the last memorial to a forgotten fool."
—Queen Marchesa
At Red Cliffs, Kongming and Zhou Yu each wrote his plan for defeating Wei on the palm of his hand. They laughed as they both revealed the same word, "Fire."
"The Lemures had barely taken wing when the sky roared with thunder. The swarm of little beasts wavered, divided, and fell, crashing to the earth."
—General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox
Keldons divide all their spoils into two groups: trophies and catapult ammunition.
"Oh sure, they buy a lot of ale, but I always find myself needing to rebuild after the giants have paid a visit."
—Belko, owner of Titan's Keg tavern
Some storms never blow over.



"Unless you enter the tiger's lair, you cannot get hold of the tiger's cubs."
—Sun Tzu, *Art of War* (trans. Giles)

"It's a cruel thing to give such a sad song to such a colorful creature."
—Sana, former Ahn-crop initiate



The seafloor is flecked with the bones of fools who dared to sail into the mist.



"You were defeated the moment you declared your aggression."
—Gideon Jura

Memories burn with the brightest flames.
"Chub toad, chub toad At the door. Run away quick Or you'll run no more."
—Traditional children's rhyme
Rakdos cultists are her best customers. They never flinch at pain and are seldom good at math.
Sphinxes drink from the mystic meres of Serra's realm, where their keen eyes watch reflections of what is and what is yet to come.


"All things return to their beginnings. The waters that spill across the Kamitaki Falls flow to sea, only to be returned to her as the rain that joins the mighty river."
—Dosan the Falling Leaf
Dominaria's most extravagant crypt nevertheless holds an empty grave.

"Those who seek my protection receive it."
-Nylea, god of the hunt


"While they scramble to fill the sudden vacancy at the top, we strike."
—Sedris, the Traitor King
"We must shake her limbs and rattle her brains."
—Grandmother Sengir

Bit by bit, Mercadia City had forced the Cho-Arrim from their ancestral lands. They would be pushed no further.
Nature doesn't walk.
"We were holding our own—until the ogre guiding us suddenly grinned and turned on our commander."
—Ivra Jursdotter, Sarpadian mercenary
Few understand the DCI's rigorous decision-making process.

When you've got nothing, you might as well trade it for something else.

"Fire has always been my most faithful companion."
—Jared Carthalion

It remembers every wound it has seen or suffered—and nothing else.
Dwell longest on the thoughts that shine brightest.
The Wall of Bone is said to be an aspect of the Great Wall in Hel, where the bones of all sinners wait for Ragnarok, when Hela will call them forth for the final battle.

Gideon and Liliana may not have seen eye to eye, but that did not stop them from fighting side by side.




"I don't know who to pity more: those who flee from my presence or the damned who can withstand it."
One offering to appease her on her arrival. Another to celebrate her departure.

"Of all the stars in the Galaxy, Sol is of the Emperor. Its heat is His might. Its light is His revelation."
—*Lectitio Divinitatus*
Each feather in its tail is a souvenir of an exotic land, a memory condensed in hue.
"To provoke the mountain is to invite the avalanche."
—Perisophia the philosopher



Living metal encasing dying flesh.
"The threads of magic that protect this place were woven by my will."
"The An-Zerrins have served me well, ever since I first killed them."
—Baron Sengir

Clambering up and over the powdery slope, the goblin chanced upon a small furry thing. There they regarded each other: the goblin and his new pair of earmuffs.

"My finest warrior was lost to the Phyrexians. I pray that Lady Selenia died honorably."
—Radiant, archangel
It sees a rotting carcass as a good wine which has been aged properly.
Instead of creating a tool that would be damaged by heat, the Thran built one that was charged by it.
"If destiny's champions have arisen to fight the Ancient Ones, then let me, too, do my part."
—Ravuel of Graypelt


"It's gingerbread, like Mother makes. What is there to be afraid of?"
When tempers run high, it's easy to lose your head.
"His mind is feeble. Feed him to the bats."


"Once you see past the veil we call 'reality,' altering your own shape is elementary."
An elder in one pride, of the Sigiled caste in another.
"There's dead, and then there's *dead* dead."
—Steamclaw driver
The only traces it leaves are silent gusts and prodigious amounts of wreckage.
"Expect nothing but scorn, flattery, and lies. And never turn your back on him."
—Northern paladin

His mind chose solitude, but his heart disagreed.

"There is no greater coward than one who believes in nothing."
Radha was born in Skyshroud, but her temper is undeniably Keldon.


Cao Cao's cousin, Cao Ren was known throughout the three kingdoms as the fiercest of warriors.


Now all they needed was a jolly, happy soul.
Some crystals glow in the presence of monsters, forming a convenient warning system. Some monsters have learned to outrun the light.



Serra's grace most often manifests as a healing touch, but it may also grant a merciful death.
As she took the wheel of the *Weatherlight* for the first time in a millennium, Jhoira knew she'd been right to restore the ship. Anything was possible now.




"Only by the bravery of those who put loyalty above glory is our home kept safe."
—Elspeth
Chandra's gift set her apart and others aflame.
"I am the mad one!"
Moriok necromancers actively spread necrogen, encouraging the transformation from Mirran to nim.
"We orphans of Fyndhorn have found no welcome in this alien place."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter


"Sleep? I can sleep when I'm dead!"


"The shadow travels toward the apex. I predict we will soon see the true measure of darkness."

Manticores divide all beings into two categories: other manticores and dinner.

"Rage courses in every heart, yearning to betray its rational prison."
—Sarkhan Vol
"This is a battle of pawns, for the highest stakes imaginable."
—Urza


The purple banner of the House of Vess is a symbol of death wherever it's flown.
"You know its mood by the plants that spring up around it. When it is placid, fields of lilies flow in its wake; when it is angry, every stem has a thorn."
—Isao, Enlightened Bushi
"Rage, my servants. Our ancient power is renewed in blood."
—Rakdos
It glides on silent wings across the midnight sky, and a dread host rises to follow.
Wreckage from the Phyrexian Invasion provided the rats with a seemingly unlimited number of breeding grounds.

"'Air superiority?' Not while our archers scan the skies."
—Elvish scout




"I bring a death none can escape."
When the cat flies and the bird stalks, guard your horses carefully.



Rest sometimes requires the right prompting.



"Why fill pockets with gold when you can fill hearts with conviction?"
"Life is a maze. This is one of its dead ends."
—Noyan Dar, Tazeem lullmage




"Tonight we'll eat a farewell feast. Cold corn porridge is not enough. / Let's peel papayas, pineapples, and mangoes, drink coconut milk, / and bake bananas."
—"Love Song of Night and Day"
"It preys on those who would spy on our lands, so we never prey on it."
—Kroshkar, Gruul shaman
The dwarves of Axgard seldom have reason to leave their impregnable underground kingdom—but when they do, they go in force.




The maze-like design embodies the core of Azorius law—strict structure designed to test wills and stall change.
"The cornfields promise a good yield this season."
—Radwick, farmer of Gatstaf
It contains the totality of Alhammarret's notes, theories, and ponderings.
"Although my official log will state there is no evidence pointing to the existence of the Mistfolk, my certainty is lessened by the cursed consistency of the expedition's eyewitness accounts."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry

"As the sun rose behind the Bone Spire, an angel appeared over the charnel fields, bringing a surge of new hope."
—Krinnea, *Siege of the Bone Spire*
"Did I know Szat would betray us?" Urza asked quizzically. "I was counting on it."
"Lady Wren is the one merchant in Keyhole Downs who isn't running a scam."
—Mirela, Azorius hussar



The helmet reveals no eyes to witness your penance, no mouth to offer absolution.
For wisdom's sake, it was built high to gaze on all things. For glory's sake, it was built high as a testament of power. For strength's sake, it was built high to repel all attacks.
Those who expect betrayal at every turn are seldom disappointed.



"It is not that you will go mad. It is that you will beg for madness."
—Volrath

What began as black
Has slowly shifted to red.
Fickle color pie.

"I got it! I got it! I—"
"You know you've angered the gods when the clouds turn against you."
—Sisay, Captain of the *Weatherlight*
The battle at Ganzan Pass left the land so saturated with blood and twisted kami magic that it was a century before a single blade of grass could take root.

The skathul, spirits consumed by revenge, fester and seethe while looking for weak minds to assault.


The Elves gathered huge piles of rot to grow fungus. Out of imitation or forethought, the Thallids did the same.
"Expect my visit when the darkness comes. The night I think is best for hiding all." —Ouallada
"Come in, yes? Is warm!"




"Don't waste my time with trifles. Bring me works of art, and I will make you rich."




The forest's constant struggle is to keep the spreading flowstone at bay.


In the hearts of mortals, in the pages of ancient lore, in the deep, forgotten places of the universe . . . Chaos awaits.
"For every answer, three questions."
—Tamiyo's journal
"Many must die for the one who should not have perished."


"I'm sure you have a story. Everyone has a story. You can tell it to the bars."
"Ever onward, ever skyward."

Nothing escapes its gaze@-or its breath.
"We sail. We plunder. Then we dance."

The castle finally got vengeance for enduring years of royally bad taste.




"They are deadly, and they are loyal. We can spare them a little blood."
—Harak, Malakir bloodwitch





"This is about more than aether or inventions. Tezzeret's schemes must be stopped!"
—Ajani Goldmane
In a culture of beauty, the most beautiful are worshipped as gods.




The ritual of making draws upon the elves' memories and pasts. And elves have long memories and ancient pasts.






"I do not teach. I simply reveal."
—Daudi, Femeref tutor
"Listen to the roar! Feel the thunder! The Immersturm shouts its approval with every bolt of lightning!"

Few among the living understand just how much of their world is shaped by the ruins of the dead.
"At least the Gateless rebels have ideals. Rakdos just mocks, defiles, and kills all we hold dear."
—Libuse, Boros sergeant






"Her hunger knows no limit. Left unchecked, she would feast on all of Tarkir."
—Yasova Dragonclaw


"Cast out by my tribe, I am a pariah trapped in this mammal's carcass. Only my true kin hear my cries."
You're too busy recoiling in fear to realize that it's already hit you.
Fangren spur may sound louder, but Viridian resurgents claim that the horn of the vorrac creates a truer, more inspiring note.

The dragon who eats the last head in the basket is entitled to the servant's.



Mages often seek to emulate the powerful relics lost to time and apocalypse.
"All who set foot in Paliano are pawns in someone's play for power."
—Marchesa, the Black Rose

Occasionally a skaab remembers too much of its former life. Luckily, there's an easy cure.
Will gasped as Rowan drew from the raw power of the Strixhaven Snarl. For a moment, she was luminous, transcendent, terrible.
Lady Farisa's contempt of tawdry kitsch grew even more infamous after her death.
"Do you still believe my work is nothing but dry, boring equations?"
—Cairu, Quandrix mage-student
In Zendikar, today's grassland could be tomorrow's jungle, and hunting grounds change as quickly as the weather.
Boros soldiers are like a cache of bombs ready to explode, and the flame-kin light their fuses.


The Consulate rarely cracks the coded announcement of a night market's location before dawn, and enforcers are taken care of if they wander too close.

"He is part of a new breed of guardian, one who embraces the best of both his world and ours."
—Mayael the Anima
After lightning struck the cliffs, the ore became iron, the iron became steel, and the steel became greaves. The lightning never left.

Trained in the arts of stealth, royal assassins choose their victims carefully, relying on timing and precision rather than brute force.
The vats are self-contained worlds, bubbling and churning with unnatural speed, boiling down eons of change into moments.
"The first birth celebrates life. The second birth mocks it."
—Mystic elder
If you try to sneak up on a rootwalla, you'll suddenly find yourself dealing with twice the lizard.
Its hunger and ire are no less for being wrought of lies and mist.
"At least this one still has arms and legs. Well, most of its legs."
—Enslow, ghoulcaller of Nephalia


"Just the thing for those pesky water mages."
—Jaya Ballard, Task Mage

When battling the Kolaghan, consider yourself lucky if lightning strikes the same place only twice.










"Foolish wizard! As you tap the power of your lofty keep, so grows my strength."
—Malvern Xelionos, *Letters*
"I have attuned the staff to your screams so that only I may benefit from your pain."
—Volux, disciple of Nin



"Ah, we have a critic."
—Orthion, Lavabrink captain
Few know her face, but everyone knows her work.
The Chapter's honored dead are interred in the Hall of Heroes, where the mineral-rich water of the catacombs slowly fossilizes their bones, preserving them for all time.
"Bring down a stag and fix its horns upon Arel's head. She hears the wisdom of our ancestors."
—Chianul, Who Whispers Twice
"You're just one more pollutant to be removed from the sea."

Where Razia was aloof and untouchable, Aurelia is on the frontlines, calling for war.


When you sink a lot of ships, it's easy to find sunken treasure.


The song of the forest is in perfect harmony. If a single note is out of place, the elves will find its source.

"Leshrac, my liege, grant me the power I am due."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
The masks float downstream toward the Mirrorlake, where faces arise to wear them.
Bones scattered around us joined to form misshapen bodies. We struck at them repeatedly—they fell, but soon formed again, with the same mocking look on their faceless skulls.

"In this dark place, yes, I *am* afraid of my own shadow."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight*
Those who forget the horrors of the past are doomed to re-meet them.
"Zendikar's true gods have risen. Whether in reverence or agony, all the world will kneel."
—Ayli, high priest of the Eternal Pilgrims
"The warm rain of grease on my face immediately made it clear I had entered Phyrexia."
—Jarsyl, Diary
"And who will stop me? You?"

Trip wire, hooked poles, and sunken pits were commonly used to unhorse riders during the Three Kingdoms period.
A massive pull of mana caused all of Dominaria to pause—Multani had transplanted Yavimaya to Urborg's edge.


"We are as brutal as our dragonlord. We strike like wild lightning and feast on human flesh."




"You can run from your pain," explained Gerrard to Crovax, "but take it from experience: you will tire before it does."

"Always give your foes a choice when they have none."
—Ob Nixilis
Most mirrors show your reflection. Others show your potential.
"The first mages witnessed the fury of the raging storm and wished to answer back."
—*The Stormwright Texts*
Right before his demise, he experienced a shattering revelation.



The fatal flaw in every plan is the assumption that you know more than your enemy.
Let the unjust avert their faces and contemplate their peril.

One eye open to see the truth of the world. One eye covered to gaze at the goddess within.


Her cold wail echoes in the alleys and under-eaves, finding the unfortunate and turning their blood to ice.

"Pain is an ally. Pain is a friend. Pain is truth."
—Sister Erynia N'botu, Order of the Valorous Heart
It's said the spirits of the drowned dead hang their lights from the shattered figureheads.
The people of Tarkir speak of an ancient legend, of the dragon-man called Sarkhan who was greatest of all khans.
"Rats and jackals feast in his swath, but even they will not walk with him."
—Mangara
"The taste of freedom is sweeter than blood."
It eats and eats until the juiciest morsel it can find is itself.

The apes of Yavimaya draw strength from the spirits of their ancestors.

Leonos had no second thoughts about the abolishment edict. He'd left skyrunes warning of the eviction, even though it was cloudy.
"Do not fear death. I shall release you from the eternal bonds and bring you glory."
—Lord Dralnu
The sky takes flight and the earth trembles.
"Can't see this airship crashing in the near future. Sturdy as a rock."
He has no patience for minds that do not inspire him or explode by trying.


"The edges of the Quicksilver Sea run dark with the spread of the Mephidross. Two more aerial passes before I can be sure what I'm seeing . . ."
—Lafarius, Neurok sky agent
"Gather your strength. Prepare yourself."
—Jeska, to Radha

"Let no trace of the vampires' foulness remain."

"The fishers will throw out their nets and draw them back filled with dust."
—Oracle *en*-Vec




"Ah, to be young again."
—Olivia Voldaren
Her presence on the battlefield can transform an unruly mob into a disciplined army.

"The Phyrexians have progressed," admired Urza. "Their parts are interchangeable."
"Despite their bravado, mortals are fragile. If Zendikar is to endure, its lords must save it."
—Drana, Kalastria bloodchief






"My grandmother once told me the future of our world was inside the Weatherseed. When I touched it, I knew she was right."




He's pretty sure he can't get charged with murder if he calls it "organic demolition."



Dark thoughts hatch and twist within the mind, straining to take wing.
"A mirror does more than reflect reality—it shapes it."
—Niko Aris

"Approach from behind. That way, if it does charge, at least you aren't in front of it."
—Vivien Reid

"I've analyzed the vault schematic. Do you want the fast way, the easy way, or the secret way in?"



"In the gathering there is strength for all who founder, renewal for all who languish, love for all who sing."
—*Song of All*, canto 642
Every path leads to discovery.

Even as the world was left cracked and gory by the marauding Eldrazi, new life began to drip from its wounds.

"There are intriguing similarities between the Order and Icatia's Leitbur religion, suggesting the two had a common origin."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. VI*



Losing his possessions distressed him, but the lack of limbs was strangely liberating.

There's so much more to Ghirapur than can be accessed by traditional roads.
The river split into many channels as it flowed to the Halimar Sea. Few travelers could follow the same one twice.

She is the apex of the artificer's craft, the spirit of the divine called out of base metal.


"Gazing at the unicorn, I felt closer to the majesty of Nyx than I ever had before."
—Oineus, traveling merchant
"We stand between the jaws of chaos and the mantle of order."
The bright tunnel sometimes leads back to life.


Impressing a judge is one thing. Delighting a child is another.


"Welcome to the Legion. You saved a district—now let's go save the world."



"Multani's heart is a seed, and all of Yavimaya is its flower. There is as much life here as in the rest of Dominaria together."
—Karn
Throughout the three kingdoms, important generals were often guarded by small groups of expert soldiers known as "elite companions."
Gerrard's longtime friend and fellow student under the maro-sorcerer Multani, Rofellos is an excellent warrior and excellent company. Though adept at both magic and swordplay, he's far more comfortable with a flagon in his hand and a good companion at his side.
Call it the thinking mage's version of brute force.

"Fair fight? I'll take survival over chivalry any day!"
—Tor Wauki, Bandit King
At full moon, the river seeps over its banks and crawls through the woods like a blanket of serpents.
"In Rath," the priest said, "there is even greater need for prayer."




"Crispy! Scarback! Load another volcano-ball."
—Stumphobbler Thuj, Orcish captain




Some wizards compete not to summon the most interesting creatures, but to create the most interesting aftereffects when a summons goes awry.
You are drawn to your death as a moth to the flame.

"Entertain me."

"I await your donation."
—Dasha, Orzhov priest
Few puppets are so willing.
"All you gotta do is walk with purpose. And run with purpose. And clear a five-foot gate with purpose."
Not all deaths are etched with mythic meaning and iconic glory.



"Don't worry, sweet brother. Help is on the way."
—Ghoulcaller Gisa
All the curiosity of the Neurok with only a trace of their duplicity.





"I hope to have such a death—lying in triumph upon the broken bodies of those who slew me."
—Radha, Keldon warlord
"We had years to prepare, while they had mere minutes."
—Kerrick, sleeper agent



Angels appear before both the blessed and the cursed, though most don't know which they are until they feel either the angel's kiss or her sword.
"For those without the Planeswalker spark, the merest touch of the Blind Eternities can kill."
—Ugin

"When these intruders are gone, Zendikar will be my throne, my palace, my playground."


"Once in the box, we're all the same."
"If someone claims the sky is falling, I listen."
—Yon Basrel, Oran-Rief survivalist

"We may have lost faith in our gods, but we are far from losing faith in ourselves."
—Munda, ambush leader

Yotian soldiers were designed to fight, not watch their feet.

It removed only one idea from her mind: defiance.
"'I have arrived,' bellowed Brawn, and the plane shuddered."
—*Scroll of Beginnings*
The key did not work on a single lock, yet it opened many doors.

Not every church is a place of faith.



The parts are as strong as the whole.
Mines became common as cities during the days of the artificers.
Blessed by the gods. Coveted by mortals. Beholden to neither.

Were she not a judge, she'd win the division herself.

"The predator knows the true way of the world. Life is conflict. Only the strong survive."
—Garruk Wildspeaker


"So even the heart of our world has succumbed."
—Koth of the Hammer
"These terms are acceptable to House Dimir. Shall we shake on it?"

"If you can't save yourself, you fight to give someone else a chance."
—Ajani Goldmane
She provides marks of protection to those she chooses as family.
"He is judge, jury, and executioner because he killed them all."
—Bishop Cawle of Elgaud


"Bind me to thee, my soul to thine. I am your servant and your slave. I shall hunger for your word and thirst for your blessing. Blood for blood, flesh for flesh, Leshrac, my lord."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"Secrets are meant to remain secret."
—Memnarch
When wielded by a true believer, it matters little whether the sword is a relic or a replica.
"Avacyn has abandoned us! We have nothing left except what we can take!"
The first memory it sucks out of its host is how to get rid of it.

"'Tis now the very witching time of night,/ When churchyards yawn and hell itself breathes out/ Contagion to this world." —William Shakespeare, Hamlet

The most ancient streets take on a life of their own. A few have decided to move to nicer neighborhoods.

"Your thoughts do not interest me nearly as much as the absence thereof."
—Gorghul, augur of skulls


"The smell of roasted flesh hung over the valley for hours."
—Onean sergeant

Its swamp cousin may be meaner, but the vizzerdrix is much bigger.

Kyren goblins always act behind the scenes—even in battle.

"I don't need a map to find riches."
"Spent a lifetime learning from predators. Picked up a few tricks."
The breakthroughs granted by Keranos, god of epiphany, can be surprisingly literal.





Whether mechanical or biological, life finds a way to propagate itself.
"The best way to learn from a book on pyromancy is to burn it."
—Jaya Ballard

The wreck hung on the jagged reef, each night disgorging more of its gruesome cargo.
Descendant of a vanished land, student of a forgotten general, and master of blades no smith could forge anew. He honors them all by living a life worthy of song.







"No, don't! Nal, it's me—"

"Heavy? Ha! The Trollking of Mossrun was heavy, and I tossed him five miles!"

"I've seen death before. My mother succumbing to illness, my comrades bleeding on the battlefield . . . But I'd never seen anything as dreadful as that."
—Taani, berserker of Etlan



The duty: to defend. The reason: to survive.
"Catch!"

"I used to have hired hands, but I discovered they make better waitstaff with the rest of the body attached."
—Olivia Voldaren
"With fire he broke the battle at Bowang . . . . Striking fear deep into Cao Cao's soul, thus Kongming scored a coup at his debut."
"If that brain can't figure out the secret of the serum, then add more brains."
—Rhmir, Hand of the Augur



"Never brag about the latest wonder you've created, students. Chandler might be listening."
—Reveka, Wizard Savant

Legend has it that the mine howls out the last words of those who died inside.
They put their safety in his hands. He puts sharpened steel in theirs.
Sometimes you go to hell, and sometimes hell comes to you.
"The Accorders would lament the transformation of their cherished lands, had they lived to see it."
—Sheoldred, Whispering One
"Home is where you can find a decent graveyard and strangers can disappear without awkward questions."


Heretic cultures came to planet Sovereign in search of resources and precious artifacts. They found something else.

Jace surmised that they were walking into Bolas's trap. He felt no joy in being right.
"You aren't invited."

"Your downfall was not your ignorance, your weakness, or your hubris, but your warm blood."
—Heidar, Rimewind master

"Rise and shine, my dears. We have work to do."
—Isareth the Awakener
The highway of fear is the shortest route to defeat.
Taj-Nar, throne of Raksha Golden Cub, destined leader of the leonin prides.


"The demons don't care if we mutter niceties and act out ceremonies. Just kill him."
—Bishop Volpaig, servant of Griselbrand
She was eager to show the invading Yotians how she earned her nickname, "The Sandstorm of Tomakul."
The barbarians call it "touching the soul of the dragon."


"Beauty to the eye does not always translate to the touch."
—Naimah, Femeref philosopher

Vitals of Grixis who eschew undeath must scrape and scratch to retain their mortality. The result is a breed of inventive mages.


"Never underestimate the ability of natural forces to adapt to unnatural influences."
—Molimo, maro-sorcerer
"Their definition of 'fair profit' is certainly novel."
—Reveka, Wizard Savant
The mating habits of Treefolk, particularly the stalwart Ironroot Treefolk, are truly absurd. Molasses comes to mind. It's amazing the species can survive at all given such protracted periods of mate selection, conjugation, and gestation.
Its hood blossoms as a warning: receive your gift, but stray no closer.

"The spell will have to wait," said Alexi, pointing up. "Drakes."




"Let the points of our lances lead the way."
The dead know lessons the living haven't learned.
"All of these old relics have one thing in common. Every last one of them is made of smithereens."
—Zada of Slab Haven
"Fire's out. Should be safe now."
—Gnarltrunk
After years of training, the druid becomes one with nature, drawing power from the land and returning it when needed.

He doesn't care whether he's rioting about trade rights or just having a drunken brawl. He wakes up every morning eager to smash some heads.
"Peace will come to Innistrad, but only after all abominations have been dealt with, one by one."

The two Eldrazi titans fell
and set the ground a-rumbling!
"How come no one ever listens?"
old Ugin flew off grumbling.
—*ZENDIKAR! The Musical*
The promise of anguish is payment enough for services rendered.

"You are not alone. You never were."



No single root feeds the forest.
"Today the Rubblebelt is a bit larger. That's a good day's work."




"We have faced horrors of war and terrors beyond imagining. We will overcome the uncertainties of this new life."

"Good ideas don't take time. They take a lot of bad ideas first."
—Ral Zarek

"Those who do not submit will be consumed."
"Vengeance is the echo of the victim's own crime."
—Grensch, merrow cutthroat

Swarms of bats poured from Lurenbraum Fortress carrying wedding invitations to vampires of every bloodline.



The same hymns Tourach sang to praise the Ebon Praetor would later be adapted to glorify Tourach himself.






Every Eldrazi in Ulamog's lineage is an extension of the titan's will.


"Stay away from my friends!"
"Sit. Heel! Down! HELP!"
"Two of my Warriors found that the creature was dangerous not only in combat, but also in simple proximity."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry
A key that slips through every lock.
Fire Elementals are ruthless infernos, annihilating and consuming their foes in a frenzied holocaust. Crackling and blazing, they sear swift, terrible paths, leaving the land charred and scorched in their wake.
"You've never considered the implications of dealing with another telepath, Jace."
"These fiends are slightly less tolerable than you." "A sentiment that warms my heart, sister."




"The Skyclaves are our inheritance."
A knight's devotion to their steed goes only so far.

Abandoning both queen and church, he chose to follow power.
"Why listen to the mumblings of wizards when the lash speaks true?"
"To visit the sky requires bravery, and thought, and little else. To master the sky requires the binding of *its* masters, and little else."
—Arnjlot Olasson, Sky Mage



Having charted their way up the difficult face, the two mountaineers had to contend with the mountain's decision to stand up.
"Raze the body. Raise the soul."
—Mystic elder
With one flap of her wings, the angel beat back the fires of war.
"Before the war, we prayed to Kataki to sharpen our swords and harden our armor. Without his blessing our weapons are all but useless against the kami hordes."
—Kenzo the Hardhearted
"Follow my lantern, little ones."
Healers ultimately acquire the divine gifts of spiritual and physical wholeness. The most devout are also granted the ability to pass physical wholeness on to others.


Foolishly, Najib retreated to his castle at El-Abar; the next morning he was dead. In just one night, the dwarven forces had reduced the mighty walls to mere rubble.
Left barren by the Brothers' War, it stands as a stark reminder of Dominaria's likely fate should the Coalition fail.
Hedrons perplex minds both great and small.

More than one mage was driven insane by the sound of the Millstone relentlessly grinding away.
In his final moments, Kefnet reached into the minds of those around him, desperate for logic within the consuming chaos.



"Seeing is believing" is a fact the merrows ruthlessly exploit in their dealings with the other residents of Shadowmoor.
"The Gitaxians whisper among themselves of other worlds. If they exist, we must bring Phyrexia's magnificence to them."



"If only we could so easily leave behind those parts of ourselves that pain us."
—Crovax
Deep within the heart of the forest, a new sun flared to life.

As dust swept out, vultures swept in.
Not all minds touched by the Eldrazi turn to raging psychosis. Some simply withdraw from this world into memories of a better one.


"The young squire gripped her sword as the clanking stranger emerged. It was no knight that had come to challenge her."
—*Beyond the Great Henge*
"It is their duty to fight and die so that Humanity might be preserved."
—Lord Commissar Barron Reed
When times are tough, the poor eat the rats. When times are tougher, the rats eat the poor.
"You might as well try to stop the waterfall."

An elder in one pride, of the Sigiled caste in another.


It's common practice among minotaurs to collect the heads of their victims as trophies. Sometimes the trophies prove more than ornamental.
Always easily impressed, Durg was about to be blown away.
Heavier than it looks, tricky to wield, guaranteed to last.


All who listen hear their own song, a unique melody played just for them.
"I do not teach. I simply reveal."
—Daudi, Femeref tutor



Divine light forged in steel.

Corpses destroyed by fire form the most destructive geists.
To a dryad, every tree in the forest is both a doorway and a window.
Even after a false god tore the magic from Dominaria, power still radiated from the Mirari sword that slew her.
Kongming and Lu Su tricked Wei troops into shooting over 100,000 arrows at them to later use against the Wei at Red Cliffs.


The peaks of Hurloon never fall silent.
"Despite the massive forces that allied against him, Konda never once believed he would lose the Kami War."
—Masako the Humorless
While hunting aether, a gremlin may ignore other stimuli, including threats to its own life.
It teaches *you* to play dead.

For the necromancer barons, killing and recruitment are one and the same.
The blacksmith forgot to feed the forge, so the forge fed itself.
"I grant you blades—on the condition that they are not pointed at me."
—Damia, Sage of Stone
"They're still here?! The cockroach may have finally met its match."
—Teferi




"Life grows everywhere. My kin merely find those places where it grows strongest."
—Nissa Revane

The ultimate treasure is one that guards itself.

A deafening roar arose as the fury of an enormous vertical river supplanted our serenity. Eddies turned into whirling geysers, leveling everything in their path.





Grixis is a world where the only things found in abundance are death and decay. Corpses, whole or in part, are the standard currency among necromancers and demons.
Trained in the arts of stealth, the royal assassins choose their victims carefully, relying on timing and precision rather than brute force.


Everyone comments on the buttons, but few appreciate the pedals.
The arrival of spring's first flowers is a sacred occasion to Karametra's acolytes, who fill the Setessan woods with song in celebration.
Centuries ago, a pyromancer's spark ignited a fiery conflagration.
"Have you ever held a Boros signet? There's a weight to it that belies its size—a weight of strength and of pride."
—Agrus Kos

"The elves tend the forest, and the forest sustains the elves. My role is to ensure that the cycle continues."


"We made tempestuous winds obedient to Solomon . . . And many of the devils We also made obedient to him."
—The Qur'an, 21:81

"Those idiots should never have bred Thrulls for combat!"
—Jherana Rure

"Sea Gate has fallen. Survivors are on the move. Will send another griffin when we find refuge. Stay hidden. Stay safe."
—Message from Tars Olan, kor world-gift

"Duty and law are the foundation on which civilization stands. They must not fall, for when they do, they take everything with them."
—Lord Konda
"I gave it two choices: life in the lab or death in the hunt."


Out of time and options, Kongming was forced to bluff at Xicheng. He tricked an army of 150,000 Wei by leaving the city gates open and calmly playing the zither.

"It seems that each time I visit Lord Konda his guards are more on edge, perhaps even more eager for the war to reach them."
—Masako the Humorless




Killing the slayers was self-preservation. The fire was just for fun.


"Anybody want some . . . toast?"
—Jaya Ballard, task mage
To explorers, "point man" is a polite way of saying "gomazoa fodder."
"Emrakul makes apparent those whom she has favored."
—Runo Stromkirk

Lumengrid, site of the Knowledge Pool, source of vedalken arcana.
"…There was no trace Of aught on that illumined face…."
—Samuel Coleridge, "Phantom"
Six feet of earth muffled his cries.

In a rare display of ingenuity, the Orcs invented an incredibly destructive weapon. Most Orcish artillerists are those who dared criticize its effectiveness.
"With precise coordination and enough blood spilled, one can be driven off, even brought down. But two . . . that's a lot of blood."
—Munda, ambush leader





In times of peril, the vision the ancient paruns had for their city comes into focus.
Structures built from darksteel yield to neither assault nor age.


The Ogre philosopher Gnerdel believed the purpose of life was to live as high on the food chain as possible. She refused to eat vegetarians, and preferred to live entirely on creatures that preyed on sentient beings.


Aimed by the eyes of eagles, their arrows never miss the mark.





With great power comes great risk of getting yourself killed.
"We mourn our dead. We shroud our dead. We bury our dead. Too often, it seems, we must kill our dead again."
—Grazda, veteran armorer
"How cute. Does it do any other tricks?"
—Braids, dementia summoner

"The cornfields promise a good yield this season."
—Radwick, farmer of Gatstaf


"Faeries talk all in riddles and tricky bits, 'cept the Nobles. Now, there's some straight talkers."
—Joskun, An-Havva Constable
The mere approach of an Abzan war beast is enough to send enemies fleeing in panic.



"I'm sorry this happened to you."
—Rick Grimes





Pharika has written her secrets on its bones so that only the worthy may discover them.
The essence of nature is change.


"Creation is a paradox. It hatches from its opposite."
—Olka, Mistmeadow witch
He speaks directly into his supplicants' minds using fiery words that inflame their thoughts and incite their passions.
"You want that venom? Collect it yourself! I'm not losing another pair of dragonhide gloves."
—Old Rutstein


Occasionally a member of the Institute of Arcane Study acquires a taste for worldly pleasures. Seldom do they have trouble finding employment.
Hope is the one crop that can grow in any climate.
"You serve Phyrexia. Your pieces would better serve Phyrexia elsewhere."
—Azax-Azog, the Demon Thane



Wails and whispers are the only weapons she has left.
Enchanted by mage-smiths and blessed by priests, Benalish windows let in light and cast out darkness.
It holds a whisper from Iona: "Persevere."





"No one can catch what won't be caught."
—Kakra, sea troll
Freyalise promised a dawn that would never end, a day of limitless life. As many dread her promise as revere it.
It harnesses the power of night in a land where daylight fears to show itself.
Beauty is in the eye of the exploder.


From the Roil emerged a ravenous primordial being of pure mana.
Warning to those who scale the cliffs without paying tribute: It's a long way down.


Teferi's body couldn't travel through time far enough, but with Kaya's help, his spirit could.
"I fight for Keranos and for mortals. I see no contradiction."
The justice of dragons demands more than just an eye for an eye.

Not everyone can have a sword of blessed silver. Not everyone needs one, either.


Nature grows solutions to her problems.
"The realm must never yield to the chaos of the wilds."
Harrowing visions, paralyzing pain, and terrifying brain spasms await those who challenge the cult.


Dragon birth lairs are littered with treasure to entice the young from their eggs.
Some said killing the Thallids only encouraged them.

Those without breath can't complain.

A strong leader means a growing pack.
"Conquering your first world is the hardest, after all. My power grew as I moved from world to world, taking anything that would make the next taking easier."
—Ob Nixilis


Even as humans regained the upper hand, some still willingly traded their lives for a chance at immortality.


It takes a taxidermist of unusual skill to cleanly stuff and mount a beast without severing its primal, predatory drive.
"We are nothing but dust to them—our bodies, our actions, even our words."
—Jori En, expedition leader

As graceful as a deer leaping a stream and as deadly as the wolf waiting in ambush on the other side, elvish warriors are the eyes of the forest as well as its unsheathed claws.

His mind chose solitude, but his heart disagreed.
"You serve Phyrexia. Your pieces would better serve Phyrexia elsewhere."
—Azax-Azog, the Demon Thane



"The expected way through the trial is far too tedious."


The sky boiled over the citadel, dire and dark. Then the angels brought the dawn.




The sailor had never seen a god before. Now she had gazed upon Thassa. Shortly she would see Athreos, and then she would meet Erebos.

Born with wings of light and a sword of faith, this heavenly incarnation embodies both fury and purity.
"The sun banishes darkness every morning. I too will rise with such assuredness."
@-Huatli


"You are not alone. You never were."


Long thought to be extinct, flocks of gryffs reappeared with Avacyn's return.

"Find the dens of evil and flood them with light."
—Hulo, the Penitent Wanderer
"Her voice is disaster, painful and final."
—Matoc, lavamancer
Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.

"If fear is the only tool you have left, then you'll never control me."
—Xantcha, to Gix
For the Simic Combine, its sigil serves not as an emblem of honor but as a trademark. Its familiar image on any biological commodity attests to superb craftsmanship, ingenious innovation, and higher cost.
"Ravnica is not its buildings or markets, or even its guilds. Ravnica is its people. As long as we're here, we can rebuild the rest."
—Teysa Karlov
"No dwarf alive can best one of my crew dead."
—Zeki, Reef Pirate
"Why so many questions?"
—Temmet, vizier of Naktamun
"When I wish to be strong, I train. When I wish to be wise, I study. When I wish to rest, I start again."

For wisdom's sake, it was built high to gaze on all things. For glory's sake, it was built high as a testament of power. For strength's sake, it was built high to repel all attacks.
Skyclaves held the key to reshaping the world.

Dreads had half a mind to leave.

Naya's trees grow tall and sturdy. Their foliage intertwines to form dewcups, rainwater pools where the elves gather to celebrate life.
Hope races on sunlit hooves.
A Gruul berserker is never unarmed.
"We speak the dragons' language of flame and rage. They speak our language of fury and honor. Together we shall weave a tale of destruction without equal."
"This world will not be tamed."



Up and down,
over and through,
back around—
the joke's on you.
"They seek to break us. Let us show them our strength!"

In the hold of the *Heart of Kiran*, Chandra answered Dovin Baan's sabotage with an explosive retort.




Dimir assassinations are choreographed like dance routines. Each challenge is anticipated and countered with graceful ease.

"You know I accept only one currency here, and yet you have sought me out. Why now do you hesitate?"
—Xathrid demon


Fire can be savage, but it is fickle. Water is always true, its flow steady and world-shaping.
"The balance of day and night is shattered. We must find the Moonsilver Key."
"We must never allow the deeds of our great ancestors to be forgotten."

"As this conflict grows, it gets harder to prevent the city from breaking down. How much longer can we keep this machinery balanced?"
"Ice can be shaped to any form, even the whisper of a memory."
—Mytha, Temur shaman

"Respect is earned through deeds—or the capacity to bite someone in half."
—Sana, former Ahn-crop initiate
There were many reasons why Shiv was not high on Sheoldred's list of places to conquer: big, fiery reasons.
All suns must set.

The revelry ends when the supply of fresh ingenues runs dry.



"No machinations, no puppet strings, no plots. Just pure, sweeping death."
—Tasigur, the Golden Fang
"Trust me, your lost fingers and toes are nothing compared to the lost treasures of Sejiri."
—Zahr Gada, Halimar expedition leader

"The foot stone is connected to the ankle stone, the ankle stone is connected to the leg stone..."
—Song of the Artificer

"The injury was being caught between this world and our own; the insult was to find walls within."
—Lyna, soltari emissary



The artificers of Kaladesh strive ceaselessly for perfection, progress, and the ultimate expression of elegance.
Each Stormscape apprentice must hand-raise and train an owl before attaining the rank of master.


"Avacyn has abandoned us! We have nothing left except what we can take!"


An abomination so violent that the other fiends tremble at the sight of it.
"Oh, they scream, right enough, and plead, too—but the Baron keeps no mercy in his vault of horrors."
—Zeki, Reef Pirate

Fire leads to more fire.
For years scholars debated whether these were Urza's or Mishra's creations. Recent research suggests they were invented by the brothers' original master, Tocasia, and that both used these devices.



"There's wisdom to be gained in death—whether it be one's own or someone else's."
—Jarad, Golgari Lich-Lord




Leonin claws were already deadly weapons of natural evolution before he improved upon them.
The myr are like the Glimmervoid: blank canvases on which to build grand creations.
Sometimes a gentle slipper can travel where an armored boot's been denied.


"Variety is also the spice of death."
—Cevraya, Golgari shaman


"Any festival you can walk away from wasn't worth attending in the first place."


Gruul territorial markings need not be legible. The blood, snot, and muck used to smear them are unmistakably Gruul.
A rare find, suitable for the most discerning collector.
Built on the very ground where the Ten signed the Guildpact, the tower is a monument to the past and a reminder of who holds power in the present.
The Mirari glows in her eyes.

The Sagu Jungle's thick undergrowth conceals even the largest predators—if they wish to remain hidden.

The embodiment of yearning, forever drifting the deserts to find what had once made it whole.
"Hunt somewhere else. This is your only warning."
—Gavi, nest warden


As the fifth sun joins the other four, new abilities awaken in the creatures of Mirrodin.

"Who says lightning never strikes twice?"
—Storm shaman


It doesn't contain venom. It is venom.
In the autumn, she casts her seeds across the streets below, and come spring, her children rise in service to the Conclave.
It didn't do much, but the residents of Sea Gate gave it a wide berth all the same.



Carefully following the thaumatic compass Bolas had given her, Vraska blundered straight into the River Heralds' trap.

He stands in the shadow of his lord, Geth, drinking in the dark energies of the Vault.
Never underestimate the power of the soul unleashed.

Dragons consider drakes to be mockeries of their perfection, destroying them on sight.
Goblin innovator, goblin corpse. Tomayto, tomahto.

His memories remained in the Underworld, but his cruelty crossed the Rivers with him.

"Wind is forceful, yet ephemeral. It can knock a dragon out of the sky, yet pass through the smallest crack unhindered."
—Jestus Dreya, *Of Elements and Eternity*
"The professor said to first extract the venom glands, then the acid sac. Next up, the . . . meeping organ?"

"The warriors deal in poison and fangs. We shamans remember why our ancestors crawled with their bellies to the earth."



They study the deeds of their traitorous ancestors, hoping the stories may reveal a way back to the physical world.

"Ach! Hans, run! It's the lhurgoyf!"
—Saffi Eriksdotter, last words
"Once, vampires ruled this world, commanding the fear and respect that befit our noble blood. Have we truly sunk so low?"
—Sorin Markov

"I don't have time for you right now."
—Teferi





"The answer's in here somewhere!"




Lavamancers make simple requests: obey or die.


Even the grandest forest begins with a single seedling.
—Llanowar saying
"Hold your bitterness deep within, and there let it fester. Let it roil and squirm and churn, until you are filled with bile so poisonous that all you touch falls to ruin."
—Morarion, Daemon Primarch

"She will come back to me."

"Not all paths are found on the forest floor."


Titania rewards all who honor the forest by making them a living part of it.
"Presented to the Chief Artificer in recognition of his unparalleled service to Yoria."
—Rusted plaque


"I will fight only the way nature intended—and nature intended us to win."
"Water and bone tell many tales, but fire is fickle. It would rather consume than reveal."
—Rielle, the Everwise
Dying is a soldier's talent.

The Zhalfirin war triangle represents a trinity of might, faith, and guile.
The Selesnya welcome all to help them heal the city's wounds. The price, however, is devotion to the guild and a selfless belief in Trostani.


"Friends, foragers, fuzzy fighters! Tonight we're after more than just acorns!"
—Larrel, Deep Forest hermit
2019 North America Legacy Champion
"The enlightenment I never found in etherium I have found traced in the coatl's scales."
—Ranalus, vedalken heretic
"Serra isn't dead. She lives on through me."
"She will come back to me."






Skepticism fades in the face of the miraculous.






Taborax's cultists are the latest in a long history of beings who have desired to see Zendikar torn to pieces.
The pen is mightier than the sword.
"Choose one to heal, one to harm, and one to grant you the prudence to use them."
—Miotri, auratouched mage
"You will either begin or end the ride no taller than this."


From their mountain aeries, aven scholars see far more than the distant horizon.
It's not hard to find work in Rishada, so long as you've got a strong back and don't ask too many questions.
History is not delicately woven. It is hammered with fire.

Baby dragons can't figure out humans—if they didn't want to be killed, why were they made of meat and treasure?
Greatness, at any cost.
The dead who wander beyond the safety of the city crave only to spread their curse.
Bedbugs aren't the only things you need to worry about biting you at night.





"When your cities and trinkets crumble, only nature will remain."
—Garruk Wildspeaker
"After the people flee, but before the enemy arrives—that's grabbin' time."

For the Phyrexians, death is not an end, nor a one-time occurrence.
A stone hurled at an enemy is deadlier in liquid form.
" . . . And the third little boar built his house out of rootwalla plates . . . ."
—Skyshroud children's story



The Zagoth wetlands are fertilized by centuries of Brokkos's former challengers.
Eldrazi break concentration like glass.
Kitesailing is a way of life—and without practice, the end of it.

To the Golgari, anything buried is treasure.
"Yes, nature is stronger. You don't see little buildings sprouting on trees."
—Emmara
The flesh is dead and the life forgotten, but old habits persist.


Out of the blackness and stench of the engulfing swamp emerged a shimmering figure. Only the splattered armor and ichor-stained sword hinted at the unfathomable evil the knight had just laid waste.

The dragon's noxious breath withered the forest. The whistle of a hundred arrows filled the air. The ground roiled as if shaken by an earthquake. The tyrant fell from the sky.


"The nim raid our homes without warning. We must defend our homes without hesitation."

"Of the six who went down the Uuserk Trail to scout ahead, one returned. She clawed at her eyes and nostrils and sobbed with horror. I was curious about what she saw, but we chose another path."
—Scout Ekemet, final journal
Lady Bormul claims an owlbear has been trampling her fields, but there's something unnatural about the tracks it left behind.
Drafna, founder of the College of Lat-Nam, could create a working model from even the smallest remnants of a newly unearthed artifact.

"By Avacyn's decree, we shall cleanse these relics of their demonic past."
". . . we will no longer sit idly by, fearing for our lives! To that end . . ."
Raptors are clever enough to tear away a hard metal shell to get at the tasty morsel inside.
"You are weak. I am strong. The protocol is obvious."

Duty subdues instinct.



"We have to get out of the city, Djeru. All of us! Gather as many as you can."
—Samut, former Tah-crop initiate

"My tales of war are the stories most asked for around the fires at night, but they're the ones I care least to tell."
"Our land oppressed by silent Cold, We weary wretches, young and old, Pray that Springtime loose his hold."
—*The Dynasty of Winter Kings*
Only one vault was great enough to hold Emrakul.
You've always preferred the company of animals to people.


None know if this Giant is the result of aberrant magics, Siamese twins, or a mentalist's schizophrenia.
Some angels protect the meek and innocent. Others seek out and smite evil wherever it lurks.
"Relative of yours?" Ertai teased. Mirri simply sneered.



A king's knowledge does not vanish when the heart stops beating.

Wounded soldiers looked up, grateful for her appearance. But she passed over them, her eyes firmly on their foe.
"Let any who doubt the evil of using the ancient devices look at this infernal machine. What manner of fiend would design such a sadistic device?"
—Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi heretic




Its flight sets the sky itself on fire.
"What do you have that I cannot obtain?"
—Mairsil, the Pretender

Distant thunder rumbled, a dread forewarning of Keranos's displeasure.
"The Vanished must have sent it from beyond to aid us in this struggle."
—Kessla, Sylvok shaman




It powers the dreams of Ghirapur.

"Echoes of the Mirari's power yet linger."
—Zyd, Kamahlite druid


Each night it visits a different guildgate around the city, digging its talons into fresh stone.

While it's true most Dragons are cruel, the Shivan Dragon seems to take particular glee in the misery of others, often tormenting its victims much like a cat plays with a mouse before delivering the final blow.
The endless expanse of desert surrounding Naktamun sometimes yields threats that the gods themselves must answer.
Fortunately, hill giants have large blind spots in which a human can easily hide. Unfortunately, these blind spots are beneath the bottoms of their feet.
In his hands, the wind can become a weapon or a means of escape.



"Nature is neither cruel nor kind. It operates on necessity, not sentiment."
—Dina, Witherbloom mage-student

They talk a good fight.




Nature doesn't walk.

"You were once Mardu, so your body and will are strong. Now we must train your mind."
—Houn, Jeskai elder





"To think some believe it peaceful to die in one's sleep."
—Ashiok, Nightmare Weaver
Wind in the trees is soothing, but the same can't be said for trees on the wind.


The barrier between existence and oblivion is thinner than you know.

"Look to the north; there you will find aid and comfort." —The Book of Tal
"General?!" Tahngarth roared. "General *nuisance*, maybe."


Between the thunderous footfalls of Naya's behemoths lie moments of perfect quiet.
For centuries, the minotaur polis of Skophos was unknown to humans. It remains unexplored.
Moonstones grant limited foresight but unlimited advantages.

The snap of sinew. The crunch of bone. A cry for mercy. These are the music of the Gruul.
Closely linked to the Church of Dusk, the paladins of the Bloodstained order are devout to the point of fanaticism.
Immolation is the sincerest form of flattery.
Servants at Vess Manor are chosen for their strong work ethic and respectful demeanor. Being alive is not required.

The tritons broke the surface, and the Nyxborn broke ranks.



Each scar on its hide is a badge of honor.




"Each place we see is as ruined and lifeless as the last. So here we stay, because this ruin is *ours*."
Its wings are a heavenly inferno that sets the world ablaze.
To Mirrodin, an explosive. To Phyrexia, a missionary.
"I can no longer sit in my workshop and ignore the events outside. My hammers strike for the people of Ghirapur."



"As she reached the pinnacle, lightning flashed and her eyes blazed with newfound power."
@-Legend of the Gilded Knights
They'd warned him greed would be the death of him. He never thought to take it literally.

"Life's greatest lessons don't come from focus or concentration. They come from breathing and simply noticing."
—Seton, centaur druid

Turns out coffee is the weird aunt of invention.

"Why perch in the crow's nest when I can fly like the crows?"


Viashino thrashes keep iguanars as hunting companions, giving them wounded captives as playthings.

His verdict is always guilty. His sentence is always death.
"Yotia is my birthright, father. Let me fight for it."
From a marvel of magical mechanization to a smoking stack of scrap in one easy step.

At the academy, "show and tell" too often becomes "run and hide."


"Suq'Ata believe in trade; Femeref, alms; Zhalfirins, steel. Be warned, Kaervek—now we are joined."
—Sidar Jabari


"You have not died until I consent."







"While most overworlders fortunately don't realize this, Gargoyles can be most delicious, providing you have the appropriate tools to carve them."
—The Underworld Cookbook, by Asmoranomardicadaistinaculdacar
"For all their supposed advances, the Phyrexians still aren't fireproof."
—Jaya Ballard
Like a great bellows it hisses, and its kin, both living and dead, are lifted to safety.
The view from above is an inspiration to the newly winged.

"It's no Ornithopter, but then I'm no Urza."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist





"I'll have my revenge if I have to call on every force from above and below."
"When a werewolf charges, you'll only have time for one shot. Best make it count."
—Captain Eberheart

The essence of sunlight to brighten the way.
"Run!" screamed its living mouths. "Come!" cried its dead ones.
Life is eternal. A lifetime is ephemeral.




The undead of Grixis are fueled by their hatred of the living.
". . . and the waters were a wall unto them on their right hand, and on their left."
—Exodus, 14:22

"I search for a vision of Zendikar that does not include the Eldrazi."
—Expedition journal entry




"For freedom! For fame! For fire!"
"The paladins would be wise not to forget about the Pearl Trident. The merfolk warriors have turned the tide of more than one human war … and I have no doubt they shall do so again."
—Onean scholar
"Oh, thank the angels. It's not a werewolf, just a regular wo—"
—Bruno, Ulvenwald guide, last words
"About, about in reel and rout
The death-fires danced at night;
The water, like a witch's oils,
Burnt green, and blue and white."
—Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"



"Start knockin' heads, boys, and don't stop 'til the ragamuffyn sings!"
Syr Branigan always remembered to kiss his good luck charm, having lost his foot to wolverines the last time he forgot.
Jort the Thunder-Mad spent his life perfecting a way to harness the power of the heavens.

Countless ghouls surged through Thraben's streets, and with them came the city's salvation.

"Union may be strength, but it is mere blind brute strength unless wisely directed."
—Samuel Butler
"Control the Great Conduit? You might as well try to divert a river with your hands."
"I often think on how excited they must feel to be chosen as my prey."
"Everyone deserves a day in court."

"Weaponized jewelry has a long and respected history."
—Ervos Trax







"Here and gone like a fleeting breeze."

Taste his power, hunger for his command.
It stalks the Regathan highlands, leaving behind melted snow, scorched earth, and the charred corpses of would-be temple robbers.
"There is no sweeter music than the wails of a dying dragon."
—Rashida Scalebane


"My favorite guilty pleasure? Are there innocent ones?"
All Mirri wanted to do was rest, but she couldn't ignore a nagging suspicion as she followed Crovax's skulking form.

In ashes are the gems of history.
"Few master the powers of the earth as well as do the Shamans of the Minotaurs."
—Baki, Wizard Attendant
"Defy me and I will burn the flesh from your bones. Betray me and I will steal the breath from your lungs."


"Don't worry about me, folks! This beauty was well-fed by my predecessor."
The furnace awaits the next master who would stoke the fires of apocalypse.



It serves a justice higher than the whims of the gods.


The Maelstrom sent a wave of raw mana through the battlefield, carrying off the fighting and fallen alike.
"On this site where Kjeld's blood was spilled, let none raise a fist or deny a beggar."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran Priest

"Any apprentice with a spellbook and two sticks can churn out a fireball. This is different. This is art."


"I concede it was a cheap shot, but it was the only one I could afford."
—Gerrard of the Weatherlight
Few outside the Saiba Futurists know the true extent of their data-extraction network.

The barbarians of Jund believe the bottomless tar pits extend forever into other, darker worlds.
"The shamans of Marit Lage do her bidding in secret, but they do it gladly."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest



Doors, walls, skulls . . . it matters not. All barriers will be broken.
Every Ardenvale aspirant must step through the flame. Their honor determines whether they burn or shine.

"Keep your chainmail, warrior. I have my own form of protection."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest
"Embrace your hunger, your lust, your desire. The universe is ours for the taking!"
—Sanctifer LeVay, Cult of the Sacred Union
The Izzet signet is redesigned often, each time becoming closer to a vanity portrait of Niv-Mizzet.
"Don't thank me. Thank nature for its wondrous designs!"
As they crept into the *Weatherlight*'s hold, the squad leader held up his hand and whispered, "Stop, goblins—what's that sound?"
To be king, Numsgil did in Blog, who did in Unkful, who did in Viddle, who did in Loll, who did in Alrok. . . .


"Bonus points for covering their heads and protecting them from head trauma from hostiles and calamities."
—Eugene Porter


Benalia has a complex caste system that changes with the lunar year. No matter what the season, the only caste that cannot be attained by either heredity or money is that of the hero.
"Nothing warms my heart better than a spirit kindled with rage."

Each sigil marks the recognition of a great deed and signifies a duty owed to the one who granted it.
"There is great wisdom in rushing headlong into combat . . . if you're prepared."
—Kenjek, captain of the Thousand Swords
Heart of fire, blood of lava, teeth of stone.
Leave but a shred of root and it will return, bursting with vigor.

"I will never complain about mosquitos again."
—Imoen
"Many giants have tried to crush me with their hammers. You'll never stop me with that little toy."
—Stigur of the Omenseekers
"Once, a wealthy king commissioned an artificial creature to be crafted from the royal treasury, thinking it a clever ploy to have the jewels guard themselves."
—Azeworai, "The Golem's Wish"
Ephara taught some mortals to feel every vein in marble as though it flows with their own blood.




"The best spot to hook one is right behind the gills."
—Rana Cloudwake, kor skyfisher
After Talrand conquered the depths of Shandalar, his ambitions drove him skyward, joined by servants whose drive and curiosity equaled his own.
"Every answer seems to lead to a more terrifying question."
—Jace Beleren


Each night that his bowl fills, a village mourns.
Zur remained aloof from Terisiare's suffering, intent only on his own perfection.

"You can join me or feed me. Choose fast."





"I never question the Autumn Willow about her motives, not even when she turns people into Lizards. It's her way."
—Devin, Faerie Noble

"At first I simply observed. But I found that without investment in others, life serves no purpose."
—Karn, silver golem

There was more malice in its button eyes than should have been possible in something that had never known life.
For each creature that arrives in its audience, the sage imparts another piece of ancient wisdom for all to hear.

Only the Cabal could make a fight to the death more deadly.

His goggles spattered with grime and his mouth full of bugs, he tossed the engines another priceless relic.
Like all priests, she gives her blessings only to those truly worthy of them.


Fairgoers were delighted to find that even outside the fairgrounds, Ghirapur was a city of wonders.

"The mongoose blew out its candle and was asleep in bed before the room went dark."
—Llanowar fable


"Fleshy, with just a hint of leather. A fine vintage."


Devil-blades and dripping blood make music Rakdos never tires of hearing.
"Our people are torn by infighting. Until the two sides reconcile, our laws can carry no meaning."

After the Skirk Ridge collapsed, the goblins erected a system of ropes and pulleys to hold up what was left.
He had glimpsed the truth of the Multiverse. Now if only he could remember it.
Left barren by the Brothers' War, it stands as a stark reminder of Dominaria's likely fate should the Coalition fail.
Zendikar's defenders include both healers and vampires. One way or another, the fallen will return to the fight.

"You lot go on ahead. I'll keep killing them until it sticks."
—Tahngarth

"If you're not having fun, what's the point of living forever?"



The archer's heart broke seeing her compatriots die far below, but she held position until the enemy was in range.
"By the time their enemies noticed the sea's changing mood, the Vodalians had often shifted formation and were ready to attack."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. V*





The Halimar Sea Caves are both the breeding ground of giant squids and the dumping ground of hardened criminals.

A single lie unleashes a tide of disbelief.


These spirits of the air are winsome and wild, and cannot be truly contained. Only marginally intelligent, they often substitute whimsy for strategy, delighting in mischief and mayhem.
"Lady Anje sends her regards. I'll carve the rest of her message into your skin."
"Here, kitty kitty. Here, kitty kitty. Aaaaugh!"

Trained in the arts of stealth, the royal assassins choose their victims carefully, relying on timing and precision rather than brute force.



The eyes let flow with tears, then blood, then the very soul—the whole wrung inside out, dripping down into the blackened puddle of the past.

"All mages dip into the same well; some are just in more of a hurry."
—Alexi, zephyr mage

Anger can empower those who embrace it.
One croaked sermon spreads propaganda and plague.
It has witnessed history's most significant events, one incarnation after another.




"And if you threaten me again, your shiny steel trousers will be sprouting daggerthorn vines."
—Iveta, rooftop runner
"Please, my friends, help yourselves to the help."
—Olivia Voldaren




Those who try to rob the Obscura often leave behind more than they take away.
"If it is weak, either kill it or ignore it. Anything else honors it."
—Kaervek
"By the time I got there, the heart had stopped. Fortunately, I was able to replace it with something better."


In nature, not a single bone or scrap of flesh goes to waste.
When you need to convey that special kind of message.
"Believe in the ideal, not the idol."
—Serra
"The land gives of itself. Its abundance provides, even in times of chaos."
Verick held his breath. Breathing wouldn't reveal his position, but it would force him to smell the goblins.
"You can join me or feed me. Choose fast."
"Atarka and her subjects congregate in Ayagor, the Dragon's Bowl. It is my duty to keep that bowl full."
—Surrak, the Hunt Caller
For every eye gouged out, two blinked open.

Fast and lethal, with a penchant for the weak and infirm.

"Your deed cannot be undone. You, however, can be."
—Agosto, Azorius imperator
Keldon warriors don't need signals to tell them when to attack. They need signals to tell them when to stop.


There are many words and phrases that can cause an experienced wizard to tremble in fear. Chief among them is "oops."


The form of the sigil is just as important as the sigil itself. If it's carried on a medallion, its bearer is a master. If it's tattooed on the body, its bearer is a slave.


"In my downtime I used to paint the vistas. Now the vistas disappear faster than my downtime."



He is the only one who sees the patterns in the overlapping maps and conflicting reports.












Stop, smell the roses, eat the peoples.
"Watch the waves too long, and you may never look away."
—Meletian proverb
"A well-trained force brings peace... which brings more time for training!"
"Aven bandits can be sly. You've got to fill the sky with boulders—and then seek cover immediately."
—Knight-Captain Wyhorn

Large as horses, dire wolves must hunt often to satisfy thier ravenous hunger. A mere human does little more than blunt their appetite.
It's difficult to outwit something that doesn't speak, strategize, or even think.
The Rimewind wizards strove to perpetuate a magical winter. Their unnatural snows birthed unnatural beasts.


Sometimes violent earthquakes, hurtling boulders, and unseasonable dust storms are wrongly attributed to the Roil.
The scullers beneath Esper keep strixes as trained pets, and set them loose when a fare refuses to pay.
"The Simic come from the cold slow depths. How could they understand the fire in a wild heart?"
—Kroshkar, Gruul shaman
"For Keld! For Benalia! For Dominaria!"
"Obey!"
Storm crow descending, winter unending. Storm crow departing, summer is starting.



"The curse is broken."
"Release that which was never caged."
—Spellbomb inscription

"Take one wrong step out here and you're dead. I take only right steps."






Trained in the arts of stealth, royal assassins choose their victims carefully, relying on timing and precision rather than brute force..


Some fiendish mage had created a horrifying wall of living flesh, patched together from a jumble of still-recognizable body parts. As we sought to hew our way through it, some unknown power healed the gaping wounds we cut, denying us passage.
Denizens of the wilds don't always seek to harm intruders. Sometimes they simply misplace them.
The Consulate keeps watch at each of the eleven bridges to ensure that the market remains a haven for commerce, not for con artists.
"They've returned for the mana rig, but it no longer belongs to them."
—Viashino bey


Shape this world in Zhalfir's image.
—Shaper Guild maxim







"From in here, everything looks like dinner."
"Words lie. People lie. The land tells the truth."

Liliana whispered to whatever consciousness Oketra and Bontu had left. "You are the gods. He is the usurper. You know what to do."
The Atlas Gauntlets did little to dissuade Vi of the notion that everything could be solved by punching.

Its graceful glide paints the ocean floor with strokes of luminescence.
part basket case, all lowercase.

"The path of least resistance will seldom lead you beyond your doorstep."
—Oracle *en*-Vec


"As she grew cold in my arms, I swore an oath that her funeral pyre would be dwarfed by a bonfire of our enemies."


It takes no prisoners, but it keeps the choicest bits for Phyrexia.
When a werewolf changes for the first time, that first howl is said to echo through the wilds till moonset.
Drakes prowl the skies of Kaladesh, waiting for the perfect moment to strike.
"The fortress is not what it seems."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi machinist

A typical day for a giant. A momentous event for a goat.
A rhino's bargain
—Femeref expression meaning "a situation with no choices"
"Groffs are great for tracking pests through the muck, but securing the pests before the groff devours them is a dicey endeavor."
—Lisette, Witherbloom dean

Burial rites among the Felhide minotaurs involve devouring those who fell in battle, to remove their shame from memory and to fuel the survivors' revenge.


"Sheath your swords! Cudgels only. I see a new pair of waterproof trek boots slithering away."
—Nablus, North Hada trapper


Suddenly, Eldo felt very alone.

Dying for the cause is overrated.
Needledeep had promised that his final project would be his biggest one yet.
"Just the place for a picnic."
—Murat, Death Speaker
Ugin's magic reaches beyond the dragons. The clans have adapted it for war.

Sometimes the cannoneer must become the cannonball.



Stray into the Morkrut and it may rise to claim you.
The circle buys time—an important commodity in battle.
The remains of ancient civilizations litter the run-down land.
"No home, no heart, no hope."
—Stronghold graffito


"The Order of Stromgald spreads its poisonous lies from within Varchild's troops, and still she sees only visions of conquest."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
"Punch and drag, Toss the slag, Sift the soil, Leave the spoil."


Vulshok sorcerers train by leaping into electrified storm clouds. Dead or alive, they come back down with smiles on their faces.


Apes can be gentle, contemplative beasts—but context is everything.


The crystal pulsed with the power of Teferi's planeswalker spark. Had Jhoira given him a blessing or a curse?
"Behold! The image of the enemy and all that she has. Trust your envy, and take it."



"They're ugly, and they're in my way."
—Tahngarth
"These guards are the most disciplined military unit in the city. They couldn't fight their way out of a broom closet, but they've got discipline."
—Gerrard, to Sisay


"Is it the water? The stars? Whatever it is, something incredible is happening here."
—Eris, zoologist, journal entry
"Words of power never disappear. They sleep, awaiting those with the will to rouse them."


An empty canvas holds infinite possibilities.
The sweepers roam endlessly, scrubbing away the refuse—and anything else too slow or too clumsy to get out of their way.
Victory before camaraderie.
Zendikar's elves have developed innovative methods to mitigate the effects of the Roil.

Ancient ruins dot the world of Arcavios, most older than Strixhaven itself and many still guarded by soldiers from the Blood Age, centuries after their deaths.
The hardest of wizards can have the softest of minds.





"Push one goblin into sight, an' run a lot. That's tactics."
—Jula, goblin raider
No evidence, no crime.
Quyzl was told by his mentor to "make more time" for his studies.

The armies of the dead always report well rested.



Don't insult a Talruum unless your mount is swift.
—Suq'Ata saying



It's there when a seed sprouts, when gourds ripen on the vines, and when the reapers cut the grains under the Harvest Moon.
We encountered a valley topped with immense boulders and eerie rock formations. Suddenly one of these boulders toppled from its perch and sprouted gargantuan wings, casting a shadow of darkness and sending us fleeing in terror.

The earth shook in support of their cause, offering a champion of its own.

In hindsight, Chandra's Incendiary Experience should never have been built next to Auntie Grub's House of Pitch.

The Scorpion God's sting sends venom strong enough to poison blood, bone, and spirit.


"Quiet now, you dreadful vermin."
—Noyan Dar, Tazeem roilmage
All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.



It relishes old-fashioned family meals.


"A strange skull was turned up by an Ephran farmer's plow. I traded a copper ring for the 'ox skull.' It resonates of the sea and danger."
—Isel, master carver
"Whatever Yawgmoth marks, dies. There is no escape."
—Tsabo Tavoc, Phyrexian general
Hidetsugu held over a dozen oni in blood oath. At his touch, rocks scorched. At his word, cities burned.
Paranoia has driven some Kessig communities to hunt down anything—and anyone—that travels through their woods.

The Abzan turn to this spell only as a last resort, for its inevitable result is what they most dread: to be alone.
Each Eldrazi ancient spawned a lineage of horrors in unfathomable shapes.



Many of Terisiare's islands are merely extensions of the root system of the Yavimaya magnigoth forests.

The eastern passage into the city is filled with reminders that the patriars are literally looking down on you.

"'O miserable of happy! Is this the end
Of this new glorious world... ?'"
—John Milton, *Paradise Lost*
Hunger seized the tyrranax, and the Sylvok's vision quest ended in disaster.

"The best armor is to keep out of range."
—Italian proverb
"Don't worry everyone—I hear hoofbeats! The Gavony Riders are coming to save us!"
—Adin, Moorland villager




"When fire is shackled to candle and torch, subjected to insignificance, it finds a way to lash out at its masters."
—Vala, disciple of Purphoros
"You will sharpen your teeth on my enemies' bones," Maraxus promised them, and his ogres cheered.

"Her hunger knows no limit. Left unchecked, she would feast on all of Tarkir."
—Yasova Dragonclaw

Each pluck of the strings breaks the hold of the unnatural on the world.
"Sure, a horse might be faster. But I'd like to see a horse take the head clean off a troll in one swipe!"
Predators try to separate the young, old, or injured from the rest of the herd. The alternative is crushing defeat.




One mogg to aim the catapult, one mogg to steer the rock.
"Even the pterodon, who chases the clouds from its skies, must bow to the great forest below."
—Mahuiz, Sun Empire archer

Though he held the title of prime minister, Cao Cao used the emperor's name to exert his own influence on the empire.
"I will go to any length to achieve my goal. Eternal life is worth any sacrifice."
—Zur the Enchanter



Even the House of Galan, who takes the most scholarly approach to the mystic traditions, has resorted to exploring more primitive methods in Avacyn's absence.
If taken, it cuts the hand that clutches it. If given, it heals the hand that holds it.
Tocasia brushed the gears and cogs from the table. There, before two wide-eyed brothers, she began a lesson on raw elemental magic.


The Brothers' War scarred the land, but Ashnod left her mark in the bloodlines of those she tortured.

"They have knives for every soul."
—Lyna, Soltari emissary
After what he viewed as Lukka's shocking betrayal, General Kudro enacted stringent security measures at every entry point into Drannith.

"Slivers are evil and slivers are sly; And if you get eaten, then no one will cry."
—Mogg children's rhyme

A single lie unleashes a tide of disbelief.



For a moment they stood tall, all fear forgotten.
The first thing a Quandrix mage learns is the laws of metaphysics. The second thing is how to break them.
"Yes, it's huge and strong and breathes fire. But we're smart!"
—Tadith the Wise, last words
Legend has it that Serpents used to be bigger, but how could that be?
"Into its maw went the seventh sea, never to be seen again while the world remains."
—Esper fable


Urza always put Tocasia's lessons on resource-gathering to effective use.



It took the Rimewind cultists days to realize they had successfully activated the creature—it just wasn't interested in moving.


War is a conflict that determines not who is right—but who is left.





"In the disarray of battle, an enemy's attack may be your most convenient weapon."
—Narset
"They're easy enough to find. Question is, are you sure you want to find one?"
—Juruk, Kalonian tracker
"I've seen this great land from every angle. I know its every tree, stone, and river bend. Yet I have come to realize that knowing a thing is not the same as healing it."
—Diary of Azusa
When you sink a lot of ships, it's easy to find sunken treasure.
It contains the energy of a dying star, caught at the moment of its explosion.

"This one will need direction. After all, each of its eyes is larger than its brain."
—Cyla, Lord of the Aerie


"We speak the dragons' language of flame and rage. They speak our language of fury and honor. Together we shall weave a tale of destruction without equal."





". . . But I'm not tired!"
Though native to cold climates, the nishoba have adapted to more temperate environments since the Ice Age ended.
"For those of courage, even the sky holds no limit."
—Arnjlot Olasson, Sky Mage
Nothing can override the hard-wired desire to kill that empowers these rage-driven Necrons.

As long as there are questions to be asked, the vedalken will ask them.
After the vanishing of the elder generations, the Anvil Tribe developed creative solutions to their personnel shortages.


A rhino rarely uses its horn to announce its charge, only to end it.
"Open when darkness threatens."
—Amulet inscription
"Skin is the prison of the blessed and the stronghold of the heretic."
—Argent Etchings, plate 64, passage 17


Getting "Gotcha'ed" again and again.


The stench in the hovel was overpowering; something loathsome was cooking. Occasionally something surfaced in the thick paste, but my host would casually push it down before I could make out what it was.
"As it charged our keep, I mistook it for a bear. After it tore through our ramparts and half the guard, I wished it had been a bear after all."
—Ballista guard
"Some say the sea is jealous of the land and wishes to climb its heights to meet the sky."
—Afari, *Tales*


A sharp axe solves most problems.
Catching even a glimpse of one is the start of eight years of good luck.
He has "friends" in places both high and low, and all seem to owe him favors.
Its blood is life. Its body is growth.



"Sea Gate may have fallen, but we still stand. We still fight."
—Gideon Jura
"I am that merry wanderer of the night."
—William Shakespeare,
*A Midsummer Night's Dream*


When the moon rises and the bloodlust takes hold, nothing matters but the kill.








"Leave behind this sorrow of this body. Be blessed, being of light."
The earth walks, strongest of all.



Resistance is unthinkable.
The fruit of this fabled tree takes on the flavor of whatever food you love most.

Restless Riveteers can always find a sparring partner in the sprawling Treza warehouse.
"It was a strange morning. When we awoke, we found our trees transformed. We didn't know whether to water them or polish them."
—Pulan, Bant orchardist
"What you attempt to pull from the Æther, I can spread onto the wind."
—Jace Beleren
"I'm sure we can come to an arrangement."
"Use everything. Iron, rust, scrap . . . even the ground must join our cause."
—Ezuri, renegade leader
Initiates in the heat of combat must be able to adapt to changing conditions.
"You'd almost think Volrath doesn't want me here."
—Gerrard

After years of research, he finally unlocked the formula for a perfect punch.
"You're coming with me."


Thus does nature assert herself.
"You are correct. This is going to hurt."
—Vraska
Depending on your point of view, the seal represents a proud guardian of the natural cycle or one who has sold her soul to darkness for eternal life.



"Listen to my song, and you need never forge a golden mask to return to me."

You can't fight what you can't find.
A shield for one is good. A shield for everyone is even better.


Eating here is always a concession.
Hope of deliverance is scorched by the fire of futility.


The elves had the edge in guile, skill, and valor. But in the end, only sheer numbers mattered.
When mountains ride the sea, waves live upon the fields.

"What are the odds, indeed?"
—Yusri, to Desera
Only in Ravnica do the wolves watch the flock.
Brrrrrrrrrrrr . . .
There's nothing quite like the feeling of paying off a large debt.
"With a single word, they were unmade."
—Krinnea, *Siege of the Bone Spire*

A kithkin doun is not so much a town as a fortress, built to withstand the constantly besieging darkness. Only those most watchful and trustworthy are tasked with guarding its walls.


"Flourishing during the Ice Age, these Wurms were the bane of all Kjeldorans. Their great size and ferocity made them the subject of countless nightmares—they embodied the worst of the Ice Age."
—*Kjeldor: Ice Civilization*
"Kill the queen first, or we'll be fighting her drones forever. It is not in a queen's nature to have enough servants."
—Borzard, exterminator captain
"The harder we press forward, the harder Krosa pushes us back."
—Aven scout

"All things return to their beginnings. The waters that spill across the Kamitaki Falls flow to sea, only to be returned to her as the rain that joins the mighty river."
—Dosan the Falling Leaf

The Wu kingdom's well-trained admirals were integral to the Southlands' victory at Red Cliffs as well as the kingdom's defense.




His blade was forged over coals of moaning treefolk, curved at the optimum angle for severing heads, and heated to volcanic temperatures by his touch.
"May you get the mount you deserve."
—Suq'Ata curse

Those who bring nothing to the temple take nothing away.

"The ancient Necron race has achieved this pinnacle of elegance through their relentless pursuit of utility."
—Tech-Priest Darvin, executed for heresy 1256998.M41
Although models of courage for Orcs, the Veterans quickly learned to fear the swift justice of their Icatian enemies.

"We will prove your guilt. We don't arrest the innocent, you know."
—Arrester Lavinia, Tenth Precinct
"He watches from above. He watches from below. He watches from within."
—Inscription on Tel-Jilad, the Tree of Tales
Storyteller: By my hand in the fire, this story is a tale of power. Listeners: May it give you strength.
Skyclaves held the key to reshaping the world.
Can you digit?
"More of that strange oil . . . It's probably nothing."
"The efreet is a striding storm with a voice that crackles like fire."
—Qhattib, Vizier of Amiqat





"If the skies are our only refuge, I will see all of us take wing."

"The secret entrance should be near."


In times of war, only death flourishes.

"Supplies inbound. Keep that pressure on."
Although some of the students quickly grasped the concept, the others could summon only blackboards.
Disaster stalks with gaping jaws across unready lands.



In Urborg, few things are less permanent than death.



What once soared high above Tarkir is now reduced to a seat.


Olivia set a few villagers loose in the hedge maze as part of the evening's "entertainment."


The turning of the tide always begins with one soldier's decision to head back into the fray.

The form of the sigil is just as important as the sigil itself. If it's carried on a medallion, its bearer is a master. If it's tattooed on the body, its bearer is a slave.

"Where metal is tainted and wood is scarce, we are best armed by faith."
—Tavalus, acolyte of Korlis

"Flamekin death rites are elaborate and spectacular affairs. Their greatest fear is death in obscurity."
—Tollek Worldwatcher, journal


"The mind: a great weapon and an even greater weakness."
—Jace Beleren





This cat has two lives and it's hunting for more.
The debased remnants of the Falkenrath bloodline prowl the passes near their ruined castles.




Skirsdag cultists meet behind a waterfall's curtain and plot with demonic forces.
Sages whisper of an undiscovered natural paradise, a tropical island unspoiled by war.
Heavy light flooded across the landscape, cloaking everything in deep crimson.

Venser wondered if it could still be called a teleportation spell if the destination is oblivion.
The Phyrexian killing machines couldn't have known the seriousness of their mistake in wounding the ape—they'd never seen it angry.





"They say the ruins of Sedraxis were once a shining capital in Vithia. Now it is a blight, a place to be avoided by the living."
—Olcot, Rider of Joffik

"The partisans have unearthed a strange artifact. None know its origin, but it gives them hope of a life beyond."
—Elspeth's journal

His prowess gives the guildless hope that they can hold out against tyranny.


"Surely it won't notice if I take—"
—Theria the Sly, last words

"Within each of you is the strength of a landslide."
—Kumano, to his pupils


In the forest villages of Kessig, parents feed their children wormwood and other bitter herbs, hoping to make them less palatable to things that roam the night.


Enter and become a mastermind of spies, lies, and deception.
That the Tolarian mists parted for the drakes was warning enough to stay away.
The earth cannot hold that which magic commands.


Count carefully the souls and see that none are lost.
—Vec teaching



In the end, the war had no winner.

It drinks fatigue.

"When traveling the Great Desert avoid wearing the scales of lizards, for the Viashino rule the sands and look poorly on the skinning of their cousins."
—*Zhalfirin Guide to the Desert*

The apes of Yavimaya draw strength from the spirits of their ancestors.
Trained in the arts of stealth, the royal assassins choose their victims carefully, relying on timing and precision rather than brute force.


A fool knows no fear. A hero shows no fear.

"No peace accord will save Ravnica. You don't build on rot. You burn it down and start again."
—Domri Rade
"Track the rot. See how far it goes."
"Zendikar will triumph this day, and our armies will fly with angels."


And yea he doth spake: "Let there be Magic."

"The best things in life are free. Money, for instance."


After years of training, the Druid becomes one with nature, drawing power from the land and returning it when needed.
"Kalitas may have returned to mindless servitude beneath the Eldrazi, but we say never again."
—Drana, Kalastria bloodchief





Rocs' innate fearlessness makes them ideal mounts for emergency response.


"I'm never unarmed."
The pungent smell of roasting flesh made both mages realize they'd rather break for dinner than fight.
The Simic created the cells to preserve their experiments. The Azorius put the cells to use on the guilty.

"Rhonas's monument belongs to the wurms now. Look elsewhere for refuge."
—Arnun, vizier of the menagerie

Every rebirth looks like a death.


"I'm sure they were once someone important, but I couldn't tell you who they were."
—Doros, expedition guide
"I've known for a year that you would cast this exact spell, at this exact spot, at this exact time."
—Raffine

When giants find their mountain homes infested, they have a whole range of solutions.

There's no prepared like overprepared.



Good at carrying things. Really good at knocking them down.
His triumph was not in outsmarting Bolas's plan, but in understanding why ultimate power is self-defeating.
Divining the future is easy when you hold the power to sway it.

"Opportunity isn't something you wait for. It's something you create."
"Callaphe gazed on the coastline,
certain her destiny called her
here, where the mist-shrouded rocks sang,
promising glories undreamed of."
—*The Callapheia*
"My faith is stronger than fang, claw, or mindless hunger."
Sharpen your ears
—Elvish expression meaning "grow wiser"



"We train for the improbable, like lightning striking the same place twice, or striking everywhere at once."
—Nundari, Sea Gate militia captain
"Who says werewolves are the only ones who can hunt as a pack?"
—Kolman, elder of Gatstaf
When the earth shudders, the sky overflows.
"The shadow travels toward the apex. I predict we will soon see the true measure of darkness."

The currents of the Marang wash away both tracks and blood.


"When these intruders are gone, Zendikar will be my throne, my palace, my playground."


"Unskin these impure bodies, Great Yawgmoth, that the flesh may welcome your blessings."
—*Phyrexian Scriptures*

The goblins did not understand their attraction to the mana rig. They simply knew it was where they belonged.



Rath is a disease all its inhabitants carry.

"This is a realm of the living. King Narfi's legion is coming to change that."
"The scourge of Skyshroud is airborne once more."
—Oracle *en*-Vec

We had taken refuge in a small cave, thinking the entrance was too narrow for it to follow. To our horror, its gigantic head smashed into the mountainside, ripping itself a new entrance.
Heinrich catches the trapeze only about half the time, but he looks so good falling.

"One for all, all for one; we strike first, and then you're done!" —Oath of the Kobold Musketeers
The hive has a long memory. It knows how every member ever died, and to whom it owes the grudge.

Only the warrior who can admit mortal weakness will be bolstered by immortal strength.

"This is Mileva, in the Tenth. We've got an elf in the plaza with a chip on her shoulder. Actually, it's more of a morningstar."

"We must hunt and kill the dragon before it can return to raze our ancient city."

The viashino had learned how to operate the rig through trial and error—mostly error.

Fortunately, Hill Giants have large blind spots in which a human can easily hide. Unfortunately, these blind spots are beneath the bottoms of their feet.
Magic often masters those who cannot master it.



At the epicenter of the Rathi overlay, the City of Traitors did not align with Dominaria. Many of its inhabitants were caught between the two worlds.
"You'd almost think Volrath doesn't want me here."
—Gerrard
Cutting-edge Imperial sentinel mechs patrol the skies over Eiganjo.
"Where did I find my horned friend? Now there's a story worth telling. . . ."
"We grew up on these streets. We know them better than any Boros grunt from Zelzo."
"Let the rest of Ravnica sneer. One way or another, they all end up in the undercity."
—Jarad
"Even your blade knows who will triumph here."
—Atraxa, Praetors' Voice
"When something dies, all things benefit. Well okay, just our things."
—Ezoc, Golgari rot farmer
Survival is a constant competition from which both sides can benefit.


"You've failed Gerrard. You've failed the Legacy. You've failed yourself. I can do no more."
—Volrath, to Karn

Her circus training proved surprisingly valuable on the battlefield.
"Unearthly and invisible fibers emanate from this sphere, entangling all who draw near."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist

"The injury was being caught between this world and our own; the insult was to find walls within."
—Lyna, Soltari emissary
Enlightenment comes most swiftly at life's end.




"Release that which was never caged."
—Spellbomb inscription


"The aven are heralds of divinity. The greatest glory is to join them in the sky."
The kor forsake roots for the winding of the path, forsake voices for the silence of the mind, forsake all else for the poverty of isolation.








No one really knows how deep the waters go beneath the Undercity, nor what amorphous horrors lurk within.

"Finesse is no match for brute force."
—Seton, centaur druid
Don't worry about provoking grizzly bears; they come that way.
"Scouting a battle before you fight it is just good business."
—Jefan, Talas ship captain
"Our creations are more than mere things. They have life in them, little bits of ourselves."
—Saheeli Rai

"Unwelcome thoughts crowd my mind. Are they my own madness, or the whispers of another?"
—Sarkhan Vol
"The League accepts no responsibility for former members and the damage they may cause."
—Maree, Izzet chamberlain


Nothing warms the heart like plunder.
"My vision is for the good of everyone. Mostly me."
"We must rely on our own knowledge, not on the dogma of the seekers or the mutterings of the sphinxes."
—Tullus of Palandius
"Innistrad's ghoulcallers are talented enough, but let me show you what someone with real power can create."
—Liliana Vess
A figure is moved on a map, and the tide of war changes.

"You wish for great destruction? It is done, my master."


As they fought the Eldrazi, many vampires learned to live among humans. Others were unable to make the adjustment.




Such is the power of Rakdos that even his shadow takes on a cruel life of its own.



That which grows without roots cannot be uprooted.
—Nantuko teaching



The Cho-Arrim fought Mercadia's decadence with more than just swords.
"Lord Bolas has shown me how each miserable little life holds untold resources."

Taste is not a sensation for the tongue alone.

"Their eyes will shrivel and blacken before faith's true light."
Cross the eyes of a hammerhead and you'll dot its teeth.
"We came to a place where the skin of Zendikar was peeled back and its bones lay bare to the sky."
—Greenweaver Mina
Don't drink and thrive.
Teroh dreams of his enemies' doom.

Some humans willingly offered up their blood, hoping it would grant the vampire families the strength to stave off the Eldrazi.

It turns the adversity of the moment into the knowledge of a lifetime.

With the fate of Innistrad uncertain, some seek solace in remote areas.
Its skin remains in a flowing, liquid state that keeps its body coated with potent restorative lymph.




"Whew. For a minute, I thought I'd forgotten the juicer."






"As we have learned from Kolaghan, to ruin is to rule."
—Shensu, Kolaghan rider

"It is better to take what does not belong to you than to let it lie around neglected."
—Mark Twain, *More Maxims of Mark*


Arrows fashioned from the living wood of Yavimaya carry all of the forest's rage in their fire-hardened points.

"Finally, a use for that head of yours."
—Braids, dementia summoner
The welcoming appearance of the Arrow Bamboo Forest masks its deathly hostility.

"Keep coming. I have knives enough for everyone."
"The enlightenment I never found in etherium I have found traced in the coatl's scales."
—Ranalus, vedalken heretic
"Some goblins are expendable. Some are impossible to get rid of. But he's both—at the same time!"
—Starke
"'I have arrived,' bellowed Brawn, and the plane shuddered."
—Scroll of Beginnings
"Let's lure the drakes to the webs over the Samok Stand. Keep the spiders content."
—Aurelia



"I'd slog through a thousand swamps to help one soul find rest."
When asked how much power is required, Izzet mages always answer "more."
The middle blade was just right.
"Your own frailty is your undoing. I am merely the one to expose it."
Driven by rage, directed by his emperor's claw.
The impact sent the soldiers scattering—then something came out of the crater.
"But nothing will end your regret."
Olka collected the evening mist for years, studying its secrets. Once she learned its essence, she could vanish with a thought.
It wasn't really expected to fly. Then again, it wasn't expected to move, either.
"Hold on to your lunch!"
—Bartleby, gnome wizard


"They'll be debugging their code for days before they figure out what happened!"
—Eita, Futurist agent
It's the twisted creation of a kithkin diviner who dreamed of very large crows.
"Build your towers as tall as you want. The shadow always reaches higher."
—Message scrawled on an alley wall



"It is not in me to tread lightly."
—Ryda, geomancer



"Go down there and fish him out. Maybe his hide will fetch a price."
"Tend the molten slag, or be the molten slag."
—Urabrask's enforcer



"My eyes are my strongest feature."

"I've always made snap decisions. I'm just better at making the right ones now that I'm older and wiser."
—Teferi
Snaking remnants of nature directed by a body of thought and progress, the oracles embody all that is Simic.



"I am the unraveler, the loosened thread that will not hold."
—Seal inscription
"You will learn to earn death."
—Volrath
A living pulse is an irresistible temptation.
"I am not Raksha. I never will be. But I refuse to be the kha who watched her pride be torn asunder."

"My power is as vast as the plains; my strength is that of mountains. Each wave that crashes upon the shore thunders like blood in my veins."
—Dakkon Blackblade, *Memoirs*

In nature, not a single bone or scrap of flesh goes to waste.


"Finding a true heartstone is even harder than finding a true heart."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator

Terisia City at last opened its ivory towers to all who sought respite from the endless war.

"The Eldrazi make worse than ruins—they make a world where not even ruins stand."
—Gideon Jura
"Any day that I ride my horse up to my ankles in the remains of my enemies is a good day."
—Akin, seasoned askari



They take a blood oath to die in battle. So far none have failed to fulfill the promise.
"The enemy is getting too close! Quick! Inflate the toad!"

The stench in the hovel was overpowering; something loathsome was cooking. Occasionally something surfaced in the thick paste, but my host would casually push it down before I could make out what it was.

"Opportunity isn't something you wait for. It's something you create."
"It won't bring them back, but it will bring me peace."
In Rath, arrows are guided not by virtue but by necessity.
Sometimes it's useful to take a break from existence.
Its white webs glitter, mimicking the frost on the tree's branches.

In with the old, out with the new.
"Ravnica, like a hedge, must be pruned, leaving only leaves of verdant uniformity."
—Niszka, Selesnya evangel
"There are some qualities—some incorporate things,/ That have a double life, which thus is made/ A type of twin entity which springs/ From matter and light, evinced in solid and shade."
—Edgar Allan Poe, "Silence"


"For he on honey-dew hath fed, And drunk the milk of Paradise."
—Samuel Taylor Coleridge, "Kubla Khan"
"Information equals profits. Our merchants sell it, or our pirates use it."
—Jefan, Talas ship captain



The gargoyles were taken from the walls of flooded Kjeldoran cities and brought upland to guard the outposts of New Argive.

Skepticism fades in the face of the miraculous.

Neither head holds a brain—that's located somewhere in the chest—but four eyes aim much better than two.

"No fair! Since when does a bug get ta munch on *me*?"
—Squee, goblin cabin hand
As long as the dryads are a part of the forest, the forest is a part of the army.


Giants and pit spawn attempted to topple the cathedral's pillars. The fine grit of their remains still swirls in the breeze outside.
Phyrexia wastes nothing. Its food chain is a spiraling cycle.

"The more our numbers grow, the more I gain hope that Volrath and his cursed stronghold will one day fall."
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
Chainer's admirers keep his dreams alive.
Remove the guardians to ensure your victory.






"Once in the box, we're all the same."
The adept underwent months of preparation to withstand pain, until he was finally ready to receive the efreet master's teachings.

"It's simple, really. If they can't find us, they can't kill us."


Those who regard the Gruul as savage simpletons underestimate the subtle power of their shamans.
Like his mother before him, Darigaaz gave his life defending Dominaria from the tyranny of self-styled "gods."
An eye for detail, a mind for numbers, a soul of clockwork.


Bone, stone . . . both taste the same to a hungry basilisk.



A wurm knows nothing of deception. If it opens its mouth, it plans to eat you.


Rage smolders within,
An all-consuming wildfire
Burning fear to ash




Centuries ago, a pyromancer's spark ignited a fiery conflagration.

"Beware an eddy where there should be none or a stretch that flows too fast or too slow."
—Old Fishbones, Martyne river guide


A symbol of power and wealth, the only commodities that matter to the Orzhov.




The assassins of the Ochran distill toxins from the remains of their previous victims.
Though the executioner did not speak, the villagers got the message.
Some timelines forever fray, branch, and intermingle. Others end abruptly.
There is always a moment of trepidation before opening a message capsule, for fear of the judgment that might be contained within.
Orcs have been enemies of the Legion of Dusk since it was formed, and the entire race has been declared anathema.

Designed by an ancient artificer, the finest Mardu bows are carved from dragon bone and strung with the wind itself.




He listens to every heartbeat, deciding which one of hundreds he will stop.
"Your life is finished, your name lost, and your work forgotten. It is as though Mazeura never existed."
—*Chainer's Torment*
Legend has it that the mine howls out the last words of those who died inside.
"Wasted potential surrounds us. Lend me that bauble, and let me see what it can be made to be."
This dinosaur doesn't know what will kill him, but he's determined it won't be heart disease.

The loss of its hunting grounds made it all the more dangerous.
An utterly silent chamber, submitted by an artificer who wished to remain anonymous.
A hermit crab goes through many shells in its lifetime, and not all are natural in origin.
Trained in the arts of stealth, the royal assassins choose their victims carefully, relying on timing and precision rather than brute force.

The symbol of the Conclave is one of unity, with tree supporting sun and sun feeding tree.
The mizzium-sphere array drove her mind deep into the thought field, where only the rarest motes of genius may be plucked.

The vedalken order their Neurok sentinels to watch over the shores of the Quicksilver Sea, as if they know of intruders yet to come.

"I am confident that if anyone actually penetrates our facades, even the most perceptive would still be fundamentally unprepared for the truth of House Dimir."
—Szadek
It's seen the wonders of entire worlds trapped in the depths of a bottomless ocean.
All the secrets of the Moriok with only a trace of their corruption.


"I admire it. Few pull off pluck and subservience at the same time."
—Ezuri, renegade leader


The Moriok scavenge for weapons, for armor, for food—and ultimately for their souls.
Gyara Spearhurler would have been renowned for her deadly accuracy, if it weren't for her deadly accuracy.
"My dragonlord's lightning will dance upon your bones!"
"I fear that as we scurry after phantoms, the Dimir pull nine puppet strings."
—Ral Zarek
The fine print is illegible scribbles, but it *is* legally binding.

"This sort of innovation occurs when you set out to improve an electric tea kettle and misplace a decimal."


Mogglings caught in a misdeed often blame the grollub. Even though the creature is usually innocent, no taskmaster can resist an excuse to beat it.
The best presents are impossible to regift.
"Knowledge is a stain that only instinct and ferocity can cleanse."
—Drarg, wolfcaller
"If you hear a choking sort of cough, it's about to get really hot."
—Raff Slugeater, goblin shortcutter
"Oh, no—not *you* again?!"
—Jaya Ballard, Task Mage


Its breath doesn't assault the senses. It pollutes the mind.
"I used to hurl rocks and eat scraps of meat burned over a fire. Look at what I've become and tell me Simic does not hold infinite possibility."


"The stories tell of a distant time when machines overran the forests, destroying everything that lived. That time will not come again."
「血の時代の魔術師は、敵に雷雨の降らせていたという。我々もその技を模倣できるはずだ。」
—-ロアホールドの魔道生徒、ドラディエル

The true Fist of Krosa is big and furry.

Nobles don wings to reach the sky villas of their peers, exchanging them for more fashionable attire upon arrival.


"Should you a Rat to madness tease Why ev'n a Rat may plague you. . ." —Samuel Coleridge, "Recantation"


For all its traps and defenses, Yavimaya has its havens, too.
"The blood of your ancestors ran heavy on this soil. Now it's your turn to sacrifice for the glory of Shiv."
—Viashino heretic
Her instinct is as sharp as her blade.
The people of Tarkir speak of an ancient legend, of the dragon-man called Sarkhan who was greatest of all khans.








In life, they were a motley crew: farmers, lords, cutpurses, priests. In death, they are united in singular, benevolent purpose.

It *wants* to remain a mystery, banishing the curious in favor of less inquisitive company.
The hardest working seat belts in the park.
"And darkness shall be cast from me For my soul resides in the Sun."
—Femeref dirge
"Sometimes being fast is as important as being smart."
—Ryza, Oran-Rief scout
When the blood hunt lost its thrill, she looked for less tangible means of domination.
Other Phyrexians have nightmares about the gargantua.

"This is a sacred duty. Master Beleren's trust has bought an eternity of my loyalty."

An emblem of a secret guild, the Dimir insignia is seen only by its own members@-and the doomed.


Some things are better left unknown.
Such power grows the body as it shrinks the soul.

"Fleshy, with just a hint of leather. A fine vintage."


"All bonds are parasitic. Only rulership is pure."
—Gix, Yawgmoth praetor

The imps' warbling cries echo through Phyrexia's towers like those of mourning doves in a cathedral.


"Someone took the time to carve these inscriptions. The least we can do is care enough to read them."
From the murk of Mephidross to the heart of Kuldotha, the vedalken send their servants forth to gather knowledge from every inch of Mirrodin.

Only from the sky can one fully understand the horrors of the wastes and the wonder of the Hekma's protection.





"Do not weep for the frail. Their time couldn't have been that far off."
—Nathrac, plaguesower

The caress of the morning star frees all from the clutch of darkness.
Bant's hearts are as pure as its air and as bright as its skies.


"If only they'd all act this docile. I could do something relaxing for a living. I've always wanted to bake biscuits."
—Ethuk, Coppercoat mage

"Know your foes' strengths as well as their weaknesses."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
Its beak rends flesh and bone, exposing the tender marrow of dream.



www.MagicTheGathering.com

"Smash this city to pieces."
—Domri Rade
"Let's go over this one more time. . . ."






No one returns unchanged.


A pretty little death is still death.
"What you are attempting is not against the law. It is, however, extremely foolish."
Bears aren't always as strong and as mean as you imagine. Some are even stronger and meaner.

The ritual of plucking out an eye to gain future sight is but a curse that enables the living to see their own deaths.
Summoned for all the wrong seasons.

Where the light falls dim and blue on broken ships, secrets lie unclaimed.
Winter's breath given form.


The dryads need neither size nor strength to defeat their enemies in battle.

The gods are fascinated by innocence, perhaps because it's a quality they themselves lack.

Red sky at night, dragon's delight.
"The only gold I need is the sheltering shimmer of the trees."



Here, rain does not wash the land; it desiccates it.
All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.
Enter and comprehend the perfection of orchestrated life.
He watches the pass in both directions, and all must pay his toll.
"We don't make mistakes, just happy little accidents."
—Bob Ross


It evades Phyrexians by hiding in the spaces between seconds.
It's said the spirits of the drowned dead hang their lights from the shattered figureheads.

The symbol of the Conclave is one of unity, with tree supporting sun and sun feeding tree.
The spell fell upon the crowd like a dragon, ancient and full of death.
The people of Tarkir speak of an ancient legend, of the dragon-man called Sarkhan who was greatest of all khans.

His enemies' trickery and deceit only fuel his righteous anger.


"When you see a raven, head for the hills. It knows when the ghost-tide is headed in."
—Sved, fisherman of Nephalia
Torching Krosa would be pointless. It grows faster than it burns.
One foot in the grave, firmly planted.
To gaze under its hood is to invite death.
Gremil finally felt in touch with nature—and felt a need to share the experience with others.



TODAY'S FORTUNE: YOU WILL HAVE A CHANCE ENCOUNTER WITH A HANDSOME ROBOT.
"It may be unconventional, but I'll take any steady mount in a storm."
"Artifice has always stood upon nature's shoulders. Let us watch nature take a turn."
—Freyalise

Rishada is the gateway to free trade—but the key will cost you.


Every now and then, a devil's prank can give you a good idea.
"Charge bravely. Fight selflessly. Act honorably. Iroas will watch over you."
—Verenis, priest of Iroas

Muskets gave the Alaborn army an advantage it had long lacked—air defense.
Only the heroic and the mad follow mountain goat trails.
Deep in nature's core lies a potential unsullied by greed or civilization.

"The greatest works of literature leave the reader forever altered."
—Nevinyrral, Urborg tyrant
Battle doesn't need a purpose; the battle is its own purpose. You don't ask why a plague spreads or a field burns. Don't ask why I fight.
Rhox monks are dedicated to spiritual growth and learning, and most bear the sigils of many students. However, they do not gladly suffer fools or those who disagree with their carefully wrought dogma.

If taken, it cuts the hand that clutches it. If given, it heals the hand that holds it.
Centaurs are sent to evangelize in Gruul territories where words of war speak louder than prayers of peace.



Merfolk don't always know what they're looking for, but they're certain once they find it.


"The fire of justice burns like nothing else."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain
"Have you ever held a Boros signet? There's a weight to it that belies its size—a weight of strength and of pride."
—Agrus Kos

Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti Djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.
"When in doubt, kill 'em twice."
"Most folks got mayhem in their hearts. Just gotta know their price."







Follow the light. In its absence, follow her.

The gods are not always kind, but they do have a soft spot for plucky underdogs.

"Step one is innovation. Step two is production. Sometimes step one is optional."
*Whispered Memories*, by Johannes Voss
"His strengths are pride, devotion, and ambition. His weaknesses are the same."
—Pianna, nomad captain


Life has always been a dance. It is only fitting that death sing the tune.
It's sent into unguilded districts by the Orzhov to collect the souls of those no one will miss.


If you've never choked on the embers of your own spell, you aren't casting it hard enough.
"Within each of you is the strength of a landslide."
—Kumano, to his pupils
When war machines became too costly, Tawnos's Weaponry replaced them.
"All of Ravnica's looking for you, Dack, from the Wojek on down."
—Maytov


She hears every voice from the swirling, whispering mist and swears to tell their stories.









"Mammoths may be good to ride on, but they're certainly bad to fall off of!"
—Disa the Restless, journal entry
"Airships are too confining. If I'm in the sky, I want to feel the wind in my hair and taste the aether."


A goblin raid is a delicate gambit—a blend of stealth, precision, and screaming death.
Urborg became the final resting place of many swordsmen of renown, their steel outmatched by the wiles of Gwendlyn.
"This ceaseless device has helped uncover marvels unreachable by mere flesh."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi machinist
Friends teach what you want to know. Enemies teach what you *need* to know.
Some creatures are bound to the cold by Rimewind magic. Others seek it out, adapted by two thousand years of the Ice. The Boreal, where Heidar's frigid sway is strongest, is home to both.

Mages routinely summon creatures from the Æther. It's only fair that they occasionally throw one back.
Never before have there been so many brilliant minds and wondrous inventions in one place. Denizens from every corner of Kaladesh will flock to the once-in-a-lifetime Inventors' Fair.


"She will come back to me."

An unfinished body with unfinished business.
"Relax. I'm sure it's just a snake hissing."
—Avram Garrisson, Leader of the Knights of Stromgald


"Other guilds say the Gruul are savages, no better than the beasts we live with. I say we've found friends who won't stab us in the back."
—Domri Rade


Greed and gluttony led him to death. Now they are his greatest assets.
In a shaman's grimy hands, a concoction of dried Skirk Ridge herbs can become the face of panic.

Night after night, Rosheen babbled about a bygone sunlit world, her every word dismissed as a madwoman's ravings.


"Old battlefields make great gardens. So rich from the blood of the fallen."

One part cunning, one part wise, and many, many parts demented.
Arc mages aren't known for their patience.
The vines and branches of the jungle canopy are all the wings it needs.
Rakdos cultists are her best customers. They never flinch at pain and are seldom good at math.
"Gideon, how easy it must be to play the protector when you think yourself untouchable. How wrong you are."
—Nicol Bolas
"What was once formed by masons, shaped by smiths, or given life by mages, I will return to the embrace of the earth."

A thousand years of history undone by one juvenile prank.

Atarka goblins meet their demise as readily as their Temur counterparts did, but usually under big, winged shadows.






In Ravnica's wilder districts, nature still stirs, and its protectors still mind their posts.
"I've heard it said that a Planeswalker is someone who can always run from danger. But Gideon's right: we're also the ones who can choose to stay."
—Jace Beleren




Designed to carry equipment across rivers, the hopping automaton was soon pressed into service in the infantry.
"Spend your life betraying me if you wish. I'll simply take it up with your ghost."
Secure in the embrace of wood, they want no part of Eladamri's war.
"I was made for this!"



"Goblins bred underground, their numbers hidden from the enemy until it was too late."
—*Sarpadian Empires*, vol. IV



"First through the Riftstone was Genesis—and the world was lifeless no more."
—Scroll of Beginnings

"Once I dreamt of death, but now it dreams of me / And only rats and rotting flesh can hear my silent plea."
—Mundungu chant




All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.


Ravnica is a seamless urban tapestry, each city bleeding into the next. In abandoned corners, however, nature has begun to reclaim what it once owned.


The stature of the fighter matters less than the depth of the cut.




"I have calculated that a dragon in flight, in a single strafing run, can cover an area of—"
—Thaedus the Clever, last words
The directors of the Riptide Project wanted instant results on the sliver experiments. They got their wish.
"'Do you know, I always thought Unicorns were fabulous monsters, too? I never saw one alive before!' 'Well, now that we have seen each other,' said the Unicorn, 'if you'll believe in me, I'll believe in you.'" —Lewis Carroll






"Crovax never passes up an opportunity to cause widespread misery."
—Belbe

"I never thought I'd miss the gomazoa."
—Trinda, Hada spy patrol
Banking steeply, the aven streaked toward the ground—and vanished.
Hidetsugu held over a dozen oni in blood oath. At his touch, rocks scorched. At his word, cities burned.

"Our people are torn by infighting. Until the two sides reconcile, our laws can carry no meaning."

It shreds its prey as each head fights for the choicest bits.




"I've forgotten more spells than you will ever know."
"Don't worry, there's plenty for everyone."
—Vickon, Eleventh Company battlemage
It started as a mere drop of water. The Magic Mirror crystallized it into much more.
Every world is an organism, able to grow new lands. Some just do it faster than others.




When the first of these giants woke from the bedrock, he was still sleepy. He yawned and stretched until his legs grew so thin that they snapped like icicles in the sun.
—Vec lore


The hunter would never forget the time or place where he first met the carnassid, for they buried him there.
"Beg me for life, and I will fill you with the glory of Phyrexian perfection."

"Any fool can open it. But it takes a genius to decipher the blank pages."
—Kordel the Cryptic



"The brethren shall blaze with unnatural fire, and the flame shall consume and purify our rage."
—Treefolk catastrophe myth
Before Kaya could pull Teferi's spirit back, the overloaded temporal anchor failed, and he was set adrift in the currents of time.


"Crispy! Scarback! Load another volcano-ball."
—Stumphobbler Thuj, orcish captain

"My earliest work escapes me."
—Stitcher Geralf
"Let us never forget the joy that lies at the heart of invention."



It is the forest beyond the horizon, the mountain waiting to be climbed, the new land across the endless sea.
After a few painful experiences, goblins learned not to pick their noses around the beasts.
Even the thrums, the lowliest of slivers, become deadly in its presence.
It shreds its prey as each head fights for the choicest bits.
It's all fun and games until someone loses an eye.
As the Second Sun glided into its final position in the sky, a chorus of wings sounded to herald the return of Nicol Bolas.









Battle tempers soldiers as fire tempers steel.



"Undefeated in battle, she is the shining future our empire deserves."
—Huatli




In Urborg, the instigators of each new rebellion are soaked in the blood of the last.

"I craved enlightenment, and Crucius's etherium opened my eyes. I would share my sight with you, but first you must believe."
Each bronze disk on its harness is an offering from a young Temur hunter, a sign of respect to the spirits of the wild.

The swarm leaves behind a flawless pattern that only occasionally threatens the structural integrity of the wood.

With his newfound sense of self-importance, Squee set his sights on ever-bigger bugs.

"Should you a Rat to madness tease Why ev'n a Rat may plague you..." —Samuel Coleridge, "Recantation"
"A place like this makes me wonder if there's more to life than blood and treasure . . . Nah."
—Boyl Bucksalt, Storm Fleet swab

Even a fragment of a powerstone contains within it not just energy, but space —vast dimensions trapped in fragile crystal.


"The forest surrounding the Vess estate became the Caligo Morass, a vast bog stalked by horrors too terrible to name."
—"The Fall of the House of Vess"
"Training? Seeing my crops burnt to cinders was all the 'training' I needed."
He listens to the sounds of battle filtering down from above, waiting for silence, waiting for his time to claim the streets.

Bonder and bonded move in unison, intuiting each other's next move.



First-years quickly learn how the Vastlands earned its name.
"Walls? What walls?"
—Jaya Ballard, Task Mage

When asked how many paths reach enlightenment, the monk kicked a heap of sand. "Count," he smiled, "and then find more grains."
I tell you, there was so many arrows flying about you couldn't hardly see the sun. So I says to young Angus, "Well, at least now we're fighting in the shade!"

Lymph, the fluid essence of blinkmoths, is prized by wizards for the rush of intellect it provides.

During the brothers' childhood, Tocasia took them to explore the sacred cave of Koilos. There, in the Hall of Tagsin, Mishra discovered the mysterious weakstone.
When a paladin undertaking the Blood Fast finally gives in to hunger, the violence is sudden, explosive, and complete.

The battle was won in the commander's head before the first weapon was drawn.
"The kami struck with gouts of fire, showers of rock, and the combined rage of the spirit world. Only Eiganjo Castle remained standing, glistening untouched in the sun."
—*The History of Kamigawa*
Its wide-reaching roots draw more than water.
Oona's song is like a twisted dinner chime. All the faeries return home, but it is Oona who feasts—on the stolen dreams and rumors they serve her.

"Your God-Pharaoh has returned."
As the Eldrazi spread, no secret that could give Zendikar's defenders an advantage was considered too dangerous to seek.
Though neither brother cared to admit it, flying the ancient thopter was their last happy moment together.


"I do as I please, little mortal. Do go on about your wishes, though—they amuse me to no end."

"Flying like a bird does not make you as free as one."
—Volrath
Reminders of Memnarch's reign still skirr across Mirrodin, reminiscent of his form if not his power.
Beauty stirs the memory like a sweet perfume excites the air.

When defeat is near and guidance is scarce, all eyes look in one direction.

Khestes the Adamant, the Champion's closest ally among the centaurs, took one stone to his shoulder and another to his flank. He held his stride and his aim, and let fly the arrow that killed the giant Grinthax.
—*The Theriad*
"She sees beyond technology to what it enables."
—Glacian, powerstone engineer



"We must shake her limbs and rattle her brains."
—Grandmother Sengir
"Salvation will not be granted by the Lunarch Council. It must be earned—at the edge of a sword, if necessary."


They drift in and out of shadow and ever on toward madness.
If it comes for you, die boldly or die swiftly—for die you will.


"Crackle" and "pop" are the most wondrous sounds.

"Morning light, morning light,
Chase away the fears of night."
—Gavony children's rhyme


"A gargoyle's meat can be carved with an ordinary cleaver, but for its petrous hide . . ."
—Asmoranomardicadaistinaculdacar, *The Underworld Cookbook*

"When the very tides turn against you, it's time to consider retirement."
—General Khurzog


Nature twists knots stronger than any rope.

Renegades do some of their best work right under the Consulate's nose.
The Mirari pulses in his veins.


Its voice has the tremor of deafening thunder, its blow the force of an avalanche.
To prepare for the Trial of Strength, nagas shed their old skin—and with it their scars, their doubts, and their fears.




Trapped for eons within the sacred gong, the kami boomed and clanged to a deafening tempo as they destroyed their erstwhile prison.





The red envelopes guarantee safe passage through the Lurenbraum barrier. Olivia left strict instructions: no invitation, no entry, no exceptions.
The maze-like design embodies the core of Azorius law—strict structure designed to test wills and stall change.
"As we followed the ice wall, we had the distinct feeling of being watched. Many of the party wanted to turn back."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry

Bassara, the tower of the fox, houses the elite skirmishers who guard the Nessian Wood against trespassers.


The pounding of his followers' hearts matched the beat of his hooves, and their voices echoed his bellows.

"Let's lure the drakes to the webs over the Samok Stand. Keep the spiders content."
—Aurelia



"Even steel and stone return to Ghrin-Danu in time."
—Katilda, Dawnhart Prime





Reminders of Memnarch's reign still skirr across Mirrodin, reminiscent of his form if not his power.
Now that it doesn't need to breathe, its hunting ground extends well beyond the sea.
"I look to the heavens for hope, but you will kneel."

Tamil had always wanted a closer look at a geist's lantern. Now he had an eternity to study one.
". . . The kingdoms three are now the stuff of dream, / For men to ponder, past all praise or blame."
"The Izzet are blamed for every little disaster, which is unfair because we only cause most of them."
—Mizzix of the Izmagnus
Sister of Nicol Bolas. Survivor of the Elder Dragon War. The most vicious of her kin.
"A pangolin's power grows with its speed. Strike when you have the chance!"
—Jiang Yanggu's travelogue
Once guarded by the Knights of the Reliquary, the tower stands now protected only by its own remoteness, its dusty treasures open to plunder by anyone.

"Arise, great one, and cleanse the world of our enemies!"
"Great art can never be created without great suffering."
The furious citizens blamed the Simic for releasing it in their district. The Simic pointed out that rats were no longer a problem.
You know that mighty dracoliches will one day rule over this world. For you, that day can't come soon enough.
"There's always room for improvement."
"The Senate griffins overhead used to make people think of order and safety. Not anymore."
—Lavinia


The geists that dwell in the deep forests of Kessig are as untamable as the woods themselves.
Dwell longest on the thoughts that shine brightest.

"To truly defeat a skaberen, you must destroy not the monster but the lab."
—Rem Karolus, Blade of the Inquisitors

The Phyrexian death machine awoke, its coldsteel heart imbuing it with sinister new power.



"What fun it is to ride and sing a slaying song tonight!"



"The gleam of rubies and my brothers and sisters by my side . . . what more could I want?"
—Brognold the Third
"We shall wage this war with undaunted faith and courage. We shall not take one step back."
—Lord Marshal Toshenko to the Vostroyan 16th
Barrin waited for the nausea to pass or for Urza to say something else. He waited in vain.
Hope is the one crop that can grow in any climate.
"The land gives of itself. Its abundance provides, even in times of chaos."
"Surely we could tame something besides hurdas and pillarfield oxen!"
—Sheyda, Ondu gamekeeper
"May the winds blow till they have wakened death. . . ."
—William Shakespeare,
*Othello*

Facets of life, reflections of the soul.
"Hold the line, hold the li—"
—General Srok, last words
Few things are more valuable than time or money—and Leovold has plenty of both.
Sometimes an eruption in Shiv produces something more dangerous than a mere river of molten rock.
All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.

All the wonders of the natural world in one breathtaking microcosm.
"Praise Nurgle! For the plague to have progressed so quickly, truly his blessing must be upon us!"
—Ku'gath Plaguefather
Let the unjust avert their faces and contemplate their peril.

The Patriarch dreams of vile plague.
To the sorrow of all, its fire was turned toward those who worshipped it.
"Smash this city to pieces."
—Domri Rade

"Many have been lost to pity."
—Karn, silver golem


Watching the spider's web
—Llanowar expression meaning "focusing on the wrong thing"




Every work of art is a hit.



Their mirrors show two worlds: that which is and that which should be.
Leukin stared at the smoldering angel feathers. "Run!" he screamed to his patrol. "We don't stand a chance!"




The longer it patrols the smoldering crags of the Oxidda Chain, the more it adopts their fiery temper.
"I'll show you original research, you hack!"
When you need to convey that special kind of message.

Incensed by their opponents' unrelenting taunts, even wise generals were known to rashly lead their troops into battle—often to disastrous defeats.

Only the most ravenous soul feeds on the health of the weak.

A spike and a maul are needed to crack their shells, but the taste is worth the effort.



"You too, Squib?"

"Peace will come to Innistrad, but only after all abominations have been dealt with, one by one."
"Down here, we have a more pointed version of the scriptures."
—Urabrask's enforcer



"In these halls there is no pass or fail. Your true test comes with the first full moon."
"It's easy for the innocent to speak of justice. They seldom feel its terrible power."
—Orim, Samite inquisitor
Magical or not, it's still a cloud.
Mood: A friendship that can outlast death.
Born of fire, destined for battle.
It's the only water source in miles of desert, but the local tribes avoid it at all costs.
Grand Warlord Radha's challengers are always defeated, but she rewards the most passionate with the Flame of Keld. After that, they burn for her.





In Rath, there are only so many souls to go around.
"Magic hat, I'm gonna be frank. What we need now is a twenty-ton tank!"
Minds, like mountains, are never so grand and mighty that they can't be reduced to dust.
"From the snowy slopes of Kaelor, To the canyons of Bandu, We drink and fight and feast and die As we were born to do."
—Balduvian tavern song
"My skills are wasted here."
—Juruk, Kalonian tracker

Battle doesn't need a purpose; the battle is its own purpose. You don't ask why a plague spreads or a field burns. Don't ask why I fight.
Pulse trackers terrorize adventurers, driving them through the jungle toward certain death at the gates of Malakir.
In a rare display of ingenuity, the Orcs invented an incredibly destructive weapon. Most Orcish artillerists are those who dared criticize its effectiveness.
"Now the scaled ones rule Tarkir."
"The wild is always changing, but it does have a few constants."
—Garruk Wildspeaker
Each fallen friend was a seed of regret, eager to blossom again in Gaea's name.
"Can we get this ghost 11% spookier?"



"No good will come from what you seek. Turn back now or suffer an ignoble death far from your home."
"These were made when Michiko was young. Wield them wisely."
—Chiyoko, Jukai elder
Each victory adds a new verse.




The owl asks but never answers.
A banner for bonds of blood or belief.

The only alert the invaders had was the rustling of leaves on a day without wind.
The kor send their thopter kites to see if the land is in a welcoming mood.


"The treasure in my mind is greater than any worldly glory."


"Once, our people could call down the storm itself to do our bidding."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain



Vela snuffs out every trace of Krond's reign, leaving pure nightfall in her wake.
"Crosis is the eye of the ur-dragon, piercing illusion and darkness."
"Who says lightning never strikes twice?"
—Storm shaman

"If you keep to the shallows, you'll never learn the secrets of the depths."

"Hi! ni! ya! Behold the man of flint, that's me! / Four lightnings zigzag from me, strike and return."
—Navajo war chant

"Hello, kindling."
It seeks those with hate in their hearts and offers vengeance.
The giant was felt a few seconds before he was seen.


"The union of the oil and necrogen has produced many pleasing reactions."
—Sheoldred, Whispering One
"Time is fluid as a dance, and truth as fleeting."
"Brute force can sometimes kick down a locked door, but knowledge is a skeleton key."




"So, the survivors from Oxid Ridge are on the move. Let them come and witness predation in its purest form."
—Glissa

On guard for larger dangers, we underestimated the power and speed of the Imp's muck-crusted claws.
What self-indulgence tears down, discipline builds up again.

Ravnica's diversity produces blossoms of opinion in a rich soil of perspectives.
"Even paradise is not without tragedies."
—Sarkhan Vol

Nobody thought twice about checking their weapons at the door, until they were informed there was no weapon check at the door.

A spike and a maul are needed to crack their shells, but the taste is worth the effort.



In Yavimaya, flying low to join a battle can be a costly mistake.
"I am confident that if anyone actually penetrates our facades, even the most perceptive would still be fundamentally unprepared for the truth of House Dimir."
—Szadek




"Overkill? This isn't a game of Kick-the-Ouphe!"
—Jaya Ballard, task mage
"I bring a wilderness no law can tame."
He raged at the world, at his family, at his life. But mostly he just raged.
"Ashes and dust; dust and ashes. Hope it works before it smashes."
—Argivian children's rhyme

Their lust for battle was so great that they didn't care their enemies wore their own faces.
"Cast onto the windless water, he drifted until the sea turned to sky."
—*Saga of the Lost King*

"Slimefoot, I know I said I wanted to grow our repository of knowledge, but this isn't what I had in mind."
The Earth herself lends her strength to these walls of living stone, which possess the stability of ancient mountains. These mighty bulwarks thwart ground-based troops, providing welcome relief for weary warriors who defend the land.

The reverberations course through the warriors' veins, beat with their hearts, and pound with their footfalls as they charge into battle.



It shreds its prey as each head fights for the choicest bits.
Rumors quickly spread among thieves about a labyrinth without walls and a prize beyond all measures of worth.
"Arcum is a babbling fool! Phyrexian technology is our greatest blessing. Take this delightful trinket for instance . . ."
—Heidar, Rimewind master
Burning with hatred for Nahiri, the Voldaren and Markov forces assaulted the warped Markov Manor with a collective fury not seen in centuries.
A match for any army—even its own.
Countless delights drift on the surface while dark schemes run below.
"Begone, moon-cursed! These folk are no prey of yours."
"Concentration is key. Without it, a mage conjures nothing but a splitting headache."
—Zur the Enchanter




Knowledge fills the mind of a fool and opens the mind of the sage.

Necromancers deal in commodities far more precious than gold and grain.
Popular indeed is the tale of how Kasimir was once a Holy man who renounced his order to take up the sword. But this tale is no more likely than any other.

"Ooh . . . shiny!"

"If we cannot live proudly, we die so!"
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
"A little dark magic won't stop me. The worse the curse, the better the prize."
—Radavi, Joraga relic hunter, last words
He has nothing left but his resentment.




The most skilled Jeskai artisans can craft imposing golems with such precision that they will last an eternity—the time believed necessary to master the Fires of the Jeskai Way.
The banished have come home to roost.
No berzerker charge can stand against the psychic might of the Hive Mind.
"In Rath," the priest said, "there is even greater need for prayer."
"Only an animal born in the wild has sufficient heart to be a true Knight's steed."
—King Darien of Kjeldor

They exist to cease.
Like a vulture's scalp, the face of a drekavac is oily and hairless. The filth and disease of its carrion diet slip off its blood-slick skin.

"Let the world behold what becomes of those who defy us."
—Taigam, Sidisi's Hand
"There will be no secrets between us... like it or not."



Upon such armor, even a mountain would break.

"We came to a place where the skin of Zendikar was peeled back and its bones lay bare to the sky."
—Greenweaver Mina


The creation of new weapons demands the destruction of others.




"There is much to learn here, but few can endure the ringing of the spires."
—Nulakam the Archivist


Infantry deployment is the art of putting your troops in the wrong place at the right time.

The grave robbers were startled, for the door to the mausoleum was already open.
"As I desire, so it shall be."
—Nicol Bolas






Subtlety is not a necessary part of sabotage.

Oketra's closest viziers are known as her chosen, though others may have a better claim to that moniker.
To the Sun Empire, any place where daylight brightens the jungle floor is sacred ground.

Nothing warms the bark on a chilly day like a draught of elf.


Green dragons take special pleasure in corrupting the good-hearted.

In the quiet before a battle, Boros soldiers whisper prayers that steady their nerves and focus their minds.
"My course is before me. There is nothing behind me."


"Inspiration is found by looking outward."
—Oviya Pashiri, sage lifecrafter


"Doesn't look like much, does it?"
—Alexi, zephyr mage
"I can think of worse ways to go. On second thought, maybe not."
—Ludevic, necro-alchemist
Fortified by the wilds.



What goes up might come down.
"A little dark magic won't stop me. The worse the curse, the better the prize."
—Radavi, Joraga relic hunter, last words
"We could no more abandon the forest than the stars could abandon the night sky."


"Taste the sweetness, breath for breath. Keep the balance, death for death."
—Barrow witch incantation
"Our enemies will soon discover that we are not as meek as they had believed."

In the jungles of Tazeem, aerial assault is not always advantageous.





"I suppose you've never heard of conservation of energy."


The wisdom of the past is written on the bones of ancients.
"So everyone gets what they truly deserve, I will keep watch."
Finders, keepers.

When the established order falters, what remains are ordinary people and their struggle to survive.
"Fascinating . . . These creatures display the paradox of tenacity and purposed self-destruction I have sought to breed into my thrulls."
—Endrek Sahr, master breeder
"Why fight the body when you can dominate the mind that rules it?"
—Jace Beleren
Some things aren't worth waiting for.

The swamps go silent at its approach, but it still hears the heartbeat of the prey within.

"When the land is angry, so are they."
—Nissa Revane
During their endless travels, the mages of the Goma Fada caravan have learned ways to harness both life and death.

"The King" set out to assemble the most kaboomiest goblin team in the land.
"Our lives are woven together like the trees' branches over our heads, forming a canopy that protects us all."

"And though she didn't get her honey, Auntie found something far more interesting."
—A tale of Auntie Grub

The fearful want the procedure before a blood festival. The guilty seek it afterward.
While defending their southern borders, both the Wu and Shu kingdoms fought against the barbarians' trained elephants.
"For years, I studied the aethersphere from afar, but it was not until I touched the aether for myself that I came to know the power contained in the swirling sky."
Some emeritus professors return from their wanderings periodically to share tales of the mystical wonders of Arcavios.
Tawnos built it to be absolutely impermeable to any force inside. Luckily it worked for any force outside as well.
"In these troubled times, we alone carry the hope of reconciliation between Elf and Human."
—Jaeuhl Carthalion, Juniper Order advocate
"I have a bad feeling about this."

Some believe that Raksha, youngest of the kha, is the reincarnation of Dakan, the first and mightiest of leonin leaders.

Unlike their cousins, Rathi basilisks turn their victims into puddles of flowstone.


Everyone roots for the little guy, but nobody bets on him.

They call it "stitcher's anesthesia," a spell to deaden the senses while the mad doctors begin their grisly work.



Magic is the name of the game.
Smoke clogged the streets and rubble littered the ground, but sunlight shining on the long-lost towers of Elturel was still a beautiful sight.




If only it had three brains, too.
"Here, you take it!"
"Now everyone knows what you are."
Sharpen your ears
—Elvish expression meaning "grow wiser"
2017 European Legacy Champion
Why wait for answers?

"Suddenly, Gideon was there with us, clearing the way so that we could escape."
—*The War Diaries*

Like most giant monsters villagers worship as gods, it proves a fickle master.


A raptor will follow any order as long as that order is "hunt," "kill," or "go for the guts."

"It's not work if you enjoy it."

"Anything that watches without sleep and fights without fear is a valuable ally against the Phyrexians."
—Kara Vrist, Neurok agent
"Why perch in the crow's nest when I can fly like the crows?"
Originally considered the work of Urza, this tablet was created by forgers seeking to imitate Urza's masterpieces.




On darkness feeding, in nightmares breeding.
"We could see the horizon blacken with the great beasts, but it was too late. The icefield offered no immediate safety, but luckily most of us reached a crevasse in which we could take cover."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry






At the sight of the thing the calamari vendor's eyes went wide, but from fear or avarice none could tell.



"There are no obstacles, only different paths."
The clerics prayed for salvation. The soldiers prayed for victory. Both prayers were answered.
Entry 546: There's more to Avacyn's madness . . .
Beneath the Tangle, the wurm tunnels stretch . . . wide as a stone's throw, long as forever, deep as you dare.

"Some people test limits. I prefer to demolish them."





Ineffable and incorruptible.



The only ride that's never failed a safety inspection.
Nirkana assassins craft incurable concoctions by mixing basilisk marrow and deathwillow sap with the vital fluids of a dozen other poisonous species.
Anywhere else, colossal. In the forests of Yavimaya, commonplace.



"We have confiscated your spells as evidence. Once we conclude our investigation, you may petition to have them returned."
When the last scrap of flesh is scoured away, the Curse of Wandering ends. Then the dead may sleep.







Fblthp decided to get some sleep, nestled among the plush Ajanis until morning.
"We've run aground sandbars before, but today, a sandbar ran aground us."
—Kipkemboi, Kukemssa pirate
The first thing a Quandrix mage learns is the laws of metaphysics. The second thing is how to break them.


"We could no more abandon the forest than the stars could abandon the night sky."
A master of tactics, the Lord of Atlantis makes his people bold in battle merely by arriving to lead them.
"Rejoice! Your vile blood will help fulfill our righteous cause."
The walls of the Necron tomb were unbreakable. The ground beneath it was not.

Its territory is defined by wherever it is at the moment.


"Graveyards are sacrilege! A waste of perfectly good bones."
—Keren-Dur, necromancer lord



Countless xenos cults dwell unseen within the Imperium, lurking just beneath the surface.

It runs on laughing gas.

"My family sheltered in her light, the dark was content to wait."
—Crovax

"If you want to truly test your survival skills, walk the Obelisk Path when the drakes are feeding."
—Etha, initiate of Rhet crop
She wished for gold, but not for the strength to carry it.
"Rage courses in every heart, yearning to betray its rational prison."
—Sarkhan Vol


"The Tenth is under heavy attack, but it's being handled. I sent Mileva."
—Tajic


"If you only follow where the paths lead, you merely go where others have gone before you."
"The jeweler, the potter, the smith . . . They all imbue a bit of their souls into their creations. The kami destroy that crafted mortal shell and absorb the soul within."
—Noboru, master kitemaker

Even the greatest hero begins with nothing.

Tocasia brushed the gears and cogs from the table. There, before two wide-eyed brothers, she began a lesson on raw elemental magic.


"You might want to work on your aim."




"Across the rift of battle, a bridge of gossamer. And for one moment, it holds."
—Snow-Fur, kitsune poet
"The secret to invention is to see something in your mind, then find where it hides in the world."
"Run! It's coming for us! Eventually!"
—Yaster, Havengul shopkeeper
Though Volrath is long dead, the slivers have become everything he wanted them to be: mindless instruments of destruction and despair.




Tomorrow belongs to those who prepare for it today.



Voyager staffs are sought by those hoping to find an escape from the sprawling glut of Ravnica.
The best defense is a good offense.
"It's easy for the innocent to speak of justice. They seldom feel its terrible power."
—Orim, Samite inquisitor

The pull of the tide star holds eternal sway.
After reading the final words, it turns back to the first page and begins again.
"That was nothing. I once took down a frost giant with a spoon!"
"The smith a mighty man is he/ With large and sinewy hands./ And the muscles of his brawny arms/ Are strong as iron bands."
—Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, The Village Blacksmith
The strider's long, loping gait is an adaptation that allows it to move quickly in deep snow.


The Capashen built the highest towers in Benalia to afford themselves the best view.
At the general's triumphant return, renewed strength surged through the soldiers' ranks.

Wherever it looked, it saw destruction—the wake of its own gaze.
Enter and rejoice! The Conclave stands united, open to one and all.

"A Tuskeri never shrinks from battle! Quite the opposite in fact."
—Arni Brokenbrow
"Our survival, like theirs, depends on our ability to work together."
—Huatli, to Tishana



Sometimes you die a glorious death with your sword held high. Sometimes you're just target practice.


Only death breeds in stagnant water.
—Urborg saying
"Behold blessed perfection."
—Sheoldred, Whispering One



And you thought Yawgmoth drove a hard bargain.


"Her voice is justice, clear and relentless."
—Akroma, angelic avenger


Between stitchers, cultists, and scavengers, corpses are in high demand.



The loyalty of a felidar is hard won but worth the effort.
Every page holds a month, every date a numeral.
"I always charge a little extra to take on a pegasus. They fly like eagles, kick like mules, and hide like hermits."
—Tahli *en*-Dal, bounty hunter




"You have not died until I consent."



". . . and when the farmer awoke the next morning, all the seeds from his field were once again in their sacks."
—Afari, *Tales*
Its footsteps of today are the lakes of tomorrow.
Nothing was going to stop it—not the narrow alleys, not the Boros garrison, and certainly not the four-story Orzhov cathedral.



"You want to know your enemy? Look at your feet while you trample him."
—Tahngarth of the Weatherlight

A finely crafted blade will never meet as many blows on the battlefield as it did on the anvil.
Embermages aren't well known for their diplomatic skills.
The Neurok, like the vedalken, are on a constant quest for knowledge. It is their currency, their trade, their life.

"The anger that festers inside this one is contagious."
—Anthousa of Setessa
Without a mind, it doesn't fear death. Without a soul, it doesn't mind killing.


A single spore from a Tyranid Hive Ship can spell doom for a solar system.
"The centaurs are truly free. Never will they be tamed by temptation or controlled by fear. They live in total harmony, a feat not yet achieved by our kind."
—Ramal, sage of Westgate

"Learn not only from the failures of the past, but also from its triumphs."
—Isperia

"Give me enough refuse and mana and I will summon an ooze that can engulf all of Ravnica."
—Cevraya, Golgari shaman



"Death is no excuse for disobedience."
—Liliana Vess





Reluctant to meet face to face, the leaders of the ten guilds prefer to do official business through a go-between immune to bribes and threats.


In its attempts to mirror Tzeentch's convoluted scheming, the Crystal Labyrinth constantly shifts and rearranges itself.


Purraj sang slaughter and danced death.



Flittersprites collect unusually valuable things: coins of fallen empires, baby teeth, and memories of treasured names.


Doing something at the last minute isn't so bad when you can make that minute last.

The more you pay for the lesson, the better you'll remember it.
"I never imagined I'd lay eyes on a creature that makes Gyruda look small and harmless!"
—Lukka
Kidnappers caught in Havengul are given two choices: languish in prison or become rat catchers. The smart ones go to prison.
"Long after the land has given up the last of its secrets, there will still be mysteries in the depths of the sea."
—Kiora
Some khenra archers fashion their arrows with a personal touch.



Unable to settle on just one design, Urza decided to create one versatile being.

The sculptor, weary of his work, created art that would finish itself.
An angel among angels, she carries the hopes of the world skyward.

It moved through the troops leaving no footprints, save on their souls.
"I'd like to introduce you to the new and improved me."
He unmakes the world in his own image.


"I prefer loyalty to be a matter of respect, not of magic. But one does what one must."
—Kaalia of the Vast




"Just one aether tiger? What do I look like, a peasant?"



Nevinyrral's final act of spite was to make sure all of his magic was destroyed along with him.


"Well, how could I know they'd explode?"
—Gregel, township militia





They're the fiercest of all the Western Paladin's soldiers. They're also the most fiercely loyal—but that loyalty comes at a price.
"Oh sure, they buy a lot of ale, but I always find myself needing to rebuild after the giants have paid a visit."
—Belko, owner of Titan's Keg tavern
A golden helix streaked skyward from the Helvault. A thunderous explosion shattered the silver monolith and Avacyn emerged, free from her prison at last.
Survival of the purest.

"The southern fortress taken by invaders? Heh, sure . . . when elephants fly."
—Brezard Skeinbow, captain of the guard
Urza threw himself into his research, pushing the boundaries of both possibility and morality.







"You can build a perfect machine out of imperfect parts."
—Urza

"The awestruck birds gazed at Wonder. Slowly, timidly, they rose into the air."
—*Scroll of Beginnings*






Once part of a wealthy merchant's private zoo, the herd roams feral throughout the Tenth, where it will remain until the guilds can agree to relocate, cull, or befriend it.







"We received an anonymous letter suggesting that Kumano holds a secret to defeating the kami, but he is nowhere to be found."
—General Takeno, letter to Lord Konda
At night, bats will feast on whatever is drawn to lanterns and streetlights.
"Don't try to hit your enemies. Concentrate on the space between them, and fill the air with doom."
—Spear-Tribe teaching

"Blood is constant. Every drop I drink, someone must bleed."
—Vradeen, vampire nocturnus

Mood: A friendship that can outlast death.





She doesn't escort the dead to the afterlife, but instead raises them to fight and die again.


"Rats and jackals feast in his swath, but even they will not walk with him."
—Mangara
When it rises, nations fall.
"In you go, big guy. Watch your head."



You're a born explorer, happiest forging your way through the untamed wilds.
"The goblins are in charge of maintenance? Why not just set it on fire now and call it a day?"
—Whip Tongue, viashino technician








"Let no child be without a sword. We will all fight, for if we fail, we will certainly all die."
—Oracle *en*-Vec


It harmonizes with the essence of its master.


"What? No, that's ridiculous! Of course the rat doesn't work for the park. I've never seen it before in my life!"
—Monoxa, midway manager

"I like problems that can be solved with an axe. And it turns out, when you have an axe, that's most of them."

"Days since last atomic ketchup explosion: 1."
—Kitchen safety notice


"The Thaw brings flooding, disease, and death. We will do all in our power to bring frigid peace back to the world."
Bargaining with a goblin is like trading with a child; both believe they already own everything.




It's tastiest when served with the fish it stole.
As it spins, dead voices shriek in an ever-increasing cacophony, rending the mind asunder.


The lacerators cut themselves before each hunt. They must feed before the sun rises or bleed to death.
"'Tis a shame, in such a tempest, to have but one anchor."
—Laurence Sterne, *Tristram Shandy*
Most books simply deliver knowledge. This one expects some in return.



From Otaria, the sun above meets the sea below at a glittering horizon.
Motivation was high in the academy once students realized flunking their exams could kill them.




Oona grants her favored subjects a dream from her own guarded heart.
Better living through metallurgy.


Fervid shamans willingly submit to shockers in hopes of glimpsing the fortunes of the future.



"Ash is our air, darkness our flesh."
—Phyrexian Scriptures



"Striking silent as a dream, Cutting short the strangled scream . . ."
—Tobrian, "Watchdragon"
"She will come back to me."
"Holy places are no longer sanctuary from death, and death is no longer sanctuary from anything."
—Thalia, Knight-Cathar
"My little winged friends tell me which of these townsfolk are worth tasting for myself."


"In memories, we can find our deepest reserves of strength."

Kytheon and his irregulars worked outside the law to bring justice to the streets of Akros.
"Let's show Vorinclex that progress doesn't always need teeth or claws."
—Malcator, Executor of Synthesis
One fleet was gone; others were poised.
"I am sewer-king!" said Rat. "I am quick and cunning and I know every tunnel."
"No, I am king!" said Zombie. "I am cold and deadly and no rot can harm me."
Then Croc came and ate them both.

Don't cross him or you'll end up sleeping with the merfolk.
"No matter how busy my schedule gets, I always try to take time for that personal touch."
—Queen Marchesa



Jingling coins beckon many an eager hand.


"I run, and thunder follows."

The model incorporated the fifth sun effortlessly, as if it had always known.



To be king, Numsgil did in Blog, who did in Unkful, who did in Viddle, who did in Loll, who did in Alrok . . . ."

"I have wept such a torrent as to scour the land clean."
—Mu Yanling
The lacerators cut themselves before each hunt. They must feed before the sun rises or bleed to death.
The empathetic nature of the thoughtweft allows kithkin healers to treat the cause of an illness rather than fight its symptoms.

"Time is fluid as a dance, and truth as fleeting."
"Wisdom is not the counting of all the drops in a waterfall. Wisdom is learning why the water seeks the earth."



"Progress comes only when we rise above our petty quarrels."




"To those who can hear it, Gaea's battle song brings power as swift as sunlight and as enduring as the deep roots of the forest."
—Gamelen, Citanul elder
The embodiment of yearning, forever drifting the deserts to find what had once made it whole.




Disaster stalks with gaping jaws across unready lands.
"Rid me of this curse, witch, or die with me."
—Garruk Wildspeaker

"They'll soon become accustomed to wearing skin that is not their own."
—Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite

A fool knows no fear. A hero shows no fear.



"To prevent, one must first predict."




"She rose above me, and in that moment Varrik the Bloody died and I was born."
—Varrik the Just
"The welds are weaker at the top."
With such great footsteps, everything is within walking distance.
Her mind was quite gone, yet she spoke nothing but truth.

"Survival rule 781: There are always more scute bugs."
—Zurdi, goblin shortcutter

For a crash course in addition, hunt a single thragtusk.

Plague-induced dreams became real as they swirled above Krov, mingling with the magical residue of the World Spell.

"Leave no stone unturned."
—Ruric Thar
"Would you abandon your past to save your future?"
—Ambassador Laquatus
"We sculpt the land into what we need—homes, armament, fortresses of war. Our strength comes not only from knowing, but from commanding the terrain."
—Raksha Golden Cub, leonin kha
Underdark flooding has swallowed ancient drow burial chambers, which are now haunted . . . and infested with oozes.

"Let the mountain's teeth pierce our oppressors."


While armies battled across Jamuraa, beasts stalked the high places looking for victims.


The soldier had given up his wealth, his title, even his home, but he had no room for regret. At last, he had saved his friend.


"Don't look at me. *I* didn't build it."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator

"Try to pretend like you understand what's important."
"I stand ready to die for our world. Who will stand with me?"
—Radiant, archangel

Too many choices will always distract a greedy beast.
Born with wings of light and a sword of faith, this heavenly incarnation embodies both fury and purity.
It slithers through the senses, constricting consciousness and poisoning perceptions.
When it rises, nations fall.



"Join the army, see foreign countries!" they'd said.

Amidst the darkest ashes grow the strongest seeds.
Just as each added feather steadies the wing, so does the flock grow stronger with each new member.
The most successful of Simic creations is cytoplasm, a living, symbiotic substance that feeds off genetic rhythms and strengthens its host in return.


"I strike in the same place as many times as necessary."
"Leshrac, my liege, grant me the power I am due."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer


"Let everything return to its true nature, so that destiny may take its course."
"One score and four he reigned, the Southland king: / A dragon coiled, a tiger poised below the mighty Yangtze."
With an armory of light, even the squire may champion her people.
"Wherever the strong would harm the weak, I will be there."
—Ajani Goldmane
The seed of a world's evil.

She watches Jetmir's back while her companions watch hers.

"We don't like interlopers and thieves cluttering our skies."
—Dionus, elvish archdruid

"One would think I would be accustomed to unexpected returns."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator
Her wings are the prayers of the devoted; her sword, the despair of the vile.
"A church is just wood and walls. A congregation is the faithful praising the angels."
—Kolman, elder of Gatstaf

"So large and so quiet—a combination best avoided."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry

"No one can catch what won't be caught."
—Kakra, Sea Troll
Empires rise and fall, but evil is eternal.

"Too dumb, and you end up a sibsig. Too smart, and you end up a meal. Mediocrity is the key to a long life."
—Mogai, Silumgar noble

"Living side by side with the elves for so long leaves me with no doubt that we serve the same goddess."
—Kolbjörn, elder druid of the Juniper Order
The glorious city of Pachatupa is the center of the Sun Empire, and Tocatli, the emperor's palace, is its glowing heart.
Her prophecies amaze her even as she speaks them.




As the rebellion spread, renegade ingenuity outpaced the Consulate's greatest fears.


"Approach my tower on bended knee or depart from it as ash upon the wind."
—Gadwick, the Wizened


The githzerai dwell in the heart of Limbo, shaping the chaos of that plane with their powerful psionic abilities.
In the end, the lights fade, the land withers, and only the dead and vile remain.
". . . Near death in Baidi, having reigned three years, / Bei sadly placed his son in Kongming's care. . . ."
"Hallowed be this compilation of mixed objects!"

The calligraphy of combat is written with strokes of sudden blood.
Urak froze when he heard it. That was his first mistake. He turned and cast a dramatic ward spell. That was his last.


Many who cross Sorin's path come down with a sudden and fatal case of being-in-the-way-of-a-millennia-old-vampire.

Ever since the disaster, the city's survivors viewed the star-strewn sky with dread.
The path back to the world of the living is murky and bewildering. A geist may not even realize that it's terrifying its own loved ones.

Fire in the blood, fire in the belly.


"There's no roar so mighty that it can't be silenced."
When the mighty sleep, the lowly prowl.

Just as the evil ones approached to slay Justina, she cast a great spell, imbuing her weapons with her own life force. Thus she fulfilled the prophecy: "In the death of your savior will you find salvation."

You might as well try to catch water with a net.


"I don't expect you to understand the myriad ways in which you're about to die."
Even baloths fear its feeding time.
Summer sends its kiss with warmth and blooming life.

May your weapon be no sword forged. May your armor be no metal wrought.
—Elvish saying
Her blade draws blood without ever touching its target.
War paint made from kolya fruit heightens senses and lessens fear. Unfortunately, fear is usually what keeps you alive.
"Have you ever held a Boros signet? There's a weight to it that belies its size—a weight of strength and of pride."
—Agrus Kos

The Dimir employ the spirits of Ravnica's ancient, nameless dead, guiding their malevolence toward selected victims.

"I can hear the shamans chanting in the hills. They say their magic will protect us from the kami, that our gold has bought our safety. But no one sleeps soundly tonight."
—Scroll fragment from the ruins of Reito

Each spell is an intricate tapestry, and Kira is the great unraveler.




Built of wood and iron. Held together by hope and prayer.
"If you ever want to leave this forest, now's the time."



Kidnappers caught in Havengul are given two choices: languish in prison or become rat catchers. The smart ones go to prison.
"Scouts of the Sakura Tribe spent two years wandering the forest to learn every leaf and tree. That knowledge was called upon during the Kami War to ensure the orochi's survival."
—*The History of Kamigawa*


"Death is not a certainty. Erebos determines when a mortal's time is up."
—Iadorna, death priest of Erebos
Just as Jin-Gitaxias's victory seemed certain, the Wanderer appeared, her blade already in motion. One mighty slash was enough to take the praetor out of the fight.
"Sleep and dream, dream and snore,
While we fae complete our chore."
—Fae rhyme


If her vehicle even has a brake, she couldn't tell you which pedal it is.
Elves believe the hydra-god Progenitus sleeps beneath Naya, feeding on forgotten magics.

"Fetch the pestridder, Paka—we've got dwarves in the rutabagas!"
—Jamul, Femeref farmer



"Let's start fresh, shall we?"



Gideon and Nissa carved a path through the Eldrazi swarm, and their Zendikari allies charged into the fray behind them.
"Heel."

"How to punish the guilty is up to the Ancestor. Deciding who merits such punishment is up to me."

The first to arrive on Dominaria from their distant home, the marids are the oldest tribe of djinn and the most respected by storm and sea.
"I want a banana *this* big!"

Spring is the most beautiful season in the grove, when the new leaves open from their ember-buds in a race of leaping flames.
Wounds of the flesh are easy to heal. Wounds of the mind may never be undone.
"A fine example of the rewards of artifice: a thoroughly obedient steed with wings of Soldevi steel."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
It turns prey into predator.
War after war, a healer's enemy is always the same—death itself.

"After waking to the magic of Llanowar, no dreams can compare."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight*
The third step in creating a skaab requires draining the body of blood and replacing it with *viscus vitae*, a mixture of angel's blood and lamp oil.





The sparkmage shrieked, calling on the rage of the storms of his youth. To his surprise, the sky responded with a fierce energy he'd never thought to see again.

Generations of genetic weeding have given rise to the deviously cowardly Ironclaw clan. To say that Orcs in general are vicious, depraved, and ignoble does not do justice to the Ironclaw.


Light's champion in the stronghold of darkness.
Drawn by power, fueled by conquest.

"Watch people flock to a murder scene. Then tell me we're not all a little sick in the head."
—Juri, proprietor of the Juri Revue



"My battle cry reaches ears far keener than yours."
—Saidah, Joraga hunter




"We are armed with light and steel. Who can stand against us?"

It drifts through the streets as a breeze of collective sighs, wilting the bustle with dreams and heavy eyelids.
"Bloodsuckers, howlers, monsters from the beyond . . . it doesn't much matter. I won't have to face them alone."


"May the ocean take it"
—Nephalia expression meaning
"good riddance"
Held in the lion's eye -Zhalfirin saying meaning "caught in the moment of crisis"

"Suck on it, Stangg!"
—Sol'kanar the Swamp King
There are things beneath the murk for whom the bog is a stew, a thin broth in need of meat.
Once, water ran here. Now only dust and ash fall from the clifftops.


The ur-golem etchings begin by celebrating Mirrodin's creator, a golem of almost limitless power. They end by cursing its protector, a being called Memnarch.

The travelers were warned to watch out for children on the road.
I rot growth and grow rot. What am I?
—Elvish riddle
Death is no excuse to stop working.
The magic of the River Heralds is so great that even a single shaman can fend off a pirate landing party.
Loyal to a fault, it heeds its master's every command.


Rootha passed with flying, living colors.


As Trostani's influence grew, vitality spread through the Conclave—much to the other guilds' dismay.

Ob Nixilis had prepared for every eventuality—except Chandra Nalaar.
"It followed me home. Can I keep it?"



Death took his humanity but not his skill with the knife.


The climax of a warlord's career is always death.
Ever since the disaster, the city's survivors viewed the star-strewn sky with dread.
"As the clans carved out their territories, we saw allies where the Mardu saw only obstacles."
—Yasova Dragonclaw



"Ghoulcallers trying to get in, geists trying to get out . . . . This duty is never dull."
They poured from the Skirk Ridge like lava, burning and devouring everything in their path.



"Here in Fyndhorn, the goddess Freyalise is generous to her children."
—Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order
"If you want to truly test your survival skills, walk the Obelisk Path when the drakes are feeding."
—Etha, initiate of Rhet crop

"Lady Anje said no violence at the wedding. She never said anything about the journey there!"
Where the light falls dim and blue on broken ships, secrets lie unclaimed.

Each generation, a handful of Auriok girls are allowed to visit the Cave of Light. They return riding the wind and brandishing steel.
"My creations still can't match the dive speed of those floppy-winged mammals. Maybe I should enter one of them in the Fair."
—Viprikti, thopterist
Good strategists seize opportunities. Great strategists make their own.
"Do you hear that, Sarkhan? The glory of the horde! I made a legend from what you abandoned."
—Zurgo, khan of the Mardu

While it's true most Dragons are cruel, the Shivan Dragon seems to take particular glee in the misery of others, often tormenting its victims much like a cat plays with a mouse before delivering the final blow.
It was in fields of grain, not fields of battle, that the Champion learned to bear the yoke of duty to the gods. She worked the land long before she was called on to defend it.
—*The Theriad*



It's no coincidence that the oldest trolls are also the angriest.

You don't want to know how she got that name.


Nature's secrets can be read on every tree, every branch, every leaf.

The first spell taught to young mages, it has spared the lives of many whose hands are too small to hold a sword.
They lament the doom that is coming to Bant without realizing the part their own leaders have played in it.

"I thought of fate as an iron lattice, intricate but rigidly unchangeable. That was until some force bent fate's bars to spare my life."
—Ilromov, traveling storyteller

One little goblin shook up the ground. When the dust cleared, no one was found.

Stensian vampires encourage spiders near their manors so they can rob the webs.


You lie down with rats, and the rats run away.
—Suq'Ata insult

"Fate is not as fixed as you might think."



Nothing gets by her . . . except the evidence, the motive, and the culprit.
Tales of the outlaw's cruelty and might grew more embellished with each crime.


The golems of the ancient Thran still draw power in ways that baffle the artificers of today.
"Courage is a proud and gleaming shield. It does not bend or hide from sight. To fight with courage, we must forge in steel."
Their war forgotten, the nations of Bant stood united in the face of a common threat.



A friend of Jorn is never cold.
Afterward, a number of treatises on sea serpent morphology were swiftly revised.


Music scythes the savage beast.

Chandra's gift set her apart and others aflame.
"My success at navigating the Dark Meanders irritates the Inkfathom school. They consider themselves peerless divers, but I try to remind them that they cannot own commodities like bravery and cunning."
Flawed copies of relics from the Thran Empire, the su-chi were inherently unstable but provided useful knowledge for Tocasia's students.
"Your mind is no longer yours to waste."



What doesn't grow, dies. And what dies grows the tarmogoyf.

"Great peril demands formidable weaponry."
—Urza



"With each knight that rode out from the bone-white keep, the queen's soldiers felt their courage failing."
—Krinnea, *Siege of the Bone Spire*
Do not judge a lizard by its size.
—Ghitu proverb
"When the beast cloaks itself in the mighty oak, what good is a bow? When the oak wraps itself around the snarling beast, what good is a hatchet?"
—Dionus, elvish archdruid
From the highest tiers of Dawn's Light Palace to the deepest shade of Wren's Run, the silver notes of the horn shimmer through the air, and all who hear it feel its pull.




"The gods think of us as insects. Perhaps there is wisdom in that."
—Perisophia the philosopher
"If it is meant to be nothing but a machine," Karn finally asked Jhoira, "why did Urza build it to be like me?"
When he hits people, they stay hit.

"Perhaps you could try throwing a rock? That might be better suited to your intellect."

"'Do you know, I always thought Unicorns were fabulous monsters, too? I never saw one alive before!'
'Well, now that we *have* seen each other,' said the Unicorn, 'if you'll believe in me, I'll believe in you.'" —Lewis Carroll, *Through the Looking-Glass*

After facing so many horrors, the survivors of Videns parish couldn't comprehend the hope that the gryff represented.



She had spoken the words a hundred times, but under the spotlight, in front of everyone, something new emerged. And the crowd went wild.
The upside to not thinking about the consequences is that you'll always surprise those who do.

The weapon wields the hand that holds it.







"Watch carefully. The gap between death and victory is thinner than your blade."
"Joskun and the other Constables serve with passion, if not with grace."
—Devin, Faerie Noble





Some spells sing a quiet tune. Others roar.
"Time and again, I have demonstrated my skills as a healer. Why, then, are you so ill at ease?"
Those who believed the city of Kroog would never fall to Mishra's forces severely underestimated the might of his war machines.
"The veil of death hides little from our kind."

"Rally to my light, and together we will drive out this darkness!"
They watched as the snake shed layer after layer until only cold bone remained.
"What is mana but possibility, an idea not yet given form?"
—Jhoira, master artificer



The storm rages and the earth breaks.



"Etherium is limited. Innovation is not."
—Tezzeret



The wires crawl over broken metal and heat themselves to melting, filling cracks quickly and efficiently.
What no spell or lockpick could open, the forest coaxed apart.




"I found a troll-horn fragment in the wooded foothills of Hurloon, and it keeps growing larger. I wonder, is the horn recreating itself or the troll?"
—Isel, master carver


The river is a powerful friend.

Seeking the company of plants ensures that your wits will go to seed.

"As the kami passed over the village of Mita, the inhabitants relived their three most grievous tragedies. Some cried. Some raged. Some were driven to madness. But the next morning, none possessed the will to fight."
—*Observations of the Kami War*
Maintaining a personal bubble is even more important when you have gills.




When you're dumber than a hammer, every problem looks like one of those things you hit with a hammer.
"Best leave your tongue in its yap-hole, Mercadian scum, for your silvered words and golden bribes do not sparkle so brightly outside your city."
"My secret ingredient? Well, I can't tell you that. But here's a hint. It's not love."

"There shall be a vast shout and then a vaster silence."
—Oracle *en*-Vec


The student asks how a spell is begun. The master ponders what ends it.
"Interesting . . . This mortal being seems to have been blessed with Qilin's essence."
—Mu Yanling's journal
"Before you can open your third eye, you must prove you can open the first two."




Tribal rivalries and petty disputes were laid aside at Eladamri's summons.
The continent of Murasa is defined by irrepressible growth, both natural and otherwise.
"It's so cute when it's sleeping, isn't it? Actually, it's still as abhorrent as ever, but at least it's not trying to kill us."
—Noyan Dar, Tazeem lullmage
Focus: The musician-wizard.


Devils find human dwellings to be oppressively cold, dark, and unburnt.


The Dawnhart survivors welcome recruits of all shapes and sizes.

Boggarts constantly strive to outdo each other with the things they bring back to the warren, each hoping the exploit will become as well-known as those of Auntie Grub.
Cartographers on Ravnica chart not just the horizontal, but also the vertical.
So great is his certainty that mere facts cannot shake it.
"We have inherited the mysteries of the Thran, but few of the answers."
—Jhoira
"I will go to any length to achieve my goal. Eternal life is worth any sacrifice."
—Zur the Enchanter
"Touch no tree, break no branch, and speak only the question you wish answered."
—Von Yomm, elder druid, to her initiates



In the arena, vampires set aside all pretense of honor or civilization and fight like the predators they know themselves to be.
Like nature, the fern spirals back on itself, eternally seeking its own center.
Every storm has an eye.

Its scales contain the essence of thousands of lotus blooms.
"Be thankful I left you your clothes."
Three hundred years of practice thwarted by an instant of mischief.
With Avacyn's return, the flow of life became a tidal wave.
Despite the chaos of the Roil and the devastation of the Eldrazi, Zendikar is a world of breathtaking beauty.
"Full of immense beauty and power, the falls at Orleason inspired the empire's greatest dreamers."
—*Fall of the Thran*

"Only those with the strength to seize their destiny deserve to have one."
—Nacatl scratchforms
"Virtue can't survive without strength."
—Ardanna of the Angelic Council
"The undead are not 'awakened.' They are evicted when there is no room left in the pit for more bodies."


Selvala's arrival never goes unnoticed.
Infested with vermin, ever hungering, dropping from night's sky.
The bite of the tinviper feels most like a razor drawn across the tongue.


Death is only the beginning of the end.


"If you had just one wish, what would it be? Gold, or angel song? Finding a lost love, or finding your way back home? Let me sing a song about one wish that came true . . ."
—Ellywick Tumblestrum
A despot in life. A monster in death.
"We are goblinkind, heirs to the mountain empires of chieftains past. Rest is death to us, and arson is our call to war."




A circle of sugar and a word of forbiddance.


Dromoka's followers forsake blood ties so that they may join a greater family.
Masters of adaptation, galeriders serve multiple purposes useful to the hive. When they're not patrolling their territories, their majestic wings serve to circulate cool air through the vast hive chambers.
They danced like puppets to a tune only Yawgmoth could hear.
Marrow-Gnawer united three nezumi gangs when he slew their leaders in a single night. Now they call him their first lord.
"You can become anything if I just put my mind to it."


"What can a peasant get for free that an emperor can never buy?"
—Dal riddle


They approach in formation, every movement efficient and sure. They halt, listen, and then press on in silent unison.
Some see the world as a place of infinite wonder and knowledge. Some see it as an infinite dinner plate.
Mage-students drawn to the power of language choose Silverquill, the college of eloquence.
"The dead make good soldiers. They can't disobey orders, never surrender, and don't stop fighting when a random body part falls off."
—Nevinyrral, *Necromancer's Handbook*
"I used to joke that he had been exiled for being too smart. Now I know why he never laughed."
—Glissa Sunseeker
The fastest way across the dunes is above.
All orggs know how to kill; training teaches them *what* to kill.
Rather than sheltering her young, the female fungusaur often injures her own offspring, thereby ensuring their rapid growth.




The hatchlings will fill the jungles of Murasa in a glittering tide.
"Soldiers speak of defending the soil, but they care only for their nations. I care nothing for their nations and everything for the soil."

Wounds of the flesh are easy to heal. Wounds of the mind may never be undone.


Zendikar's elves have developed innovative methods to mitigate the effects of the Roil.
"You were once Mardu, so your body and will are strong. Now we must train your mind."
—Houn, Jeskai elder

Sometimes even humble forest creatures were gifted with mighty emanations from the past.



It's never just *one* goblin.
2021 Vintage Champion


Tired of Boros interference, the Rakdos unleashed hellraiser goblins, hoping their corpses would weigh down the halberds.
It's like the cycle of reincarnation, just significantly more abrupt.


It is said that Yinglong gave birth to the qilin and the phoenix, and after them, all the hairy and winged beings in the world. Thus it is known as the Ancestor Dragon.
"A rumor passes among the snakes, whispered by the rushes, inspiring the seekers: the goddess Freyalise is alive in Skyshroud."
"No owners allowed."
—Sanctuary sign
Exhausting a wizard can be exhausting work.
Bury old friends deeply, lest they return bearing worms.



Even in their mountain fortresses, the Akroans have learned not to anger Thassa.






The horror lurched about like a puppet from a madman's nightmare, squeezing the life from its own kind.
Not even the tallest tree stands a chance against the underside of a dinosaur's foot.



"There was a wall here. Now it is dust. A tower rose here. Now it is fallen. An army fought here. Now it is dead. A spirit was here. It is all that remains."
—Snow-Fur, kitsune poet

"Ready . . . uh . . . fire!"
"From the first touch, I know exactly what the metal wants to be."
"There are some qualities—some incorporate things,
That have a double life, which thus is made
A type of that twin entity which springs
From matter and light, evinced in solid and shade."
—Edgar Allan Poe, "Silence"
Perfectly suited for life in the Shifting Wastes, the krushok is well protected by its horn, its hide, and its temper.



"From the first touch, I know exactly what the metal wants to be."

"As the sky opened up, we ran for shelter. Halfway there I came to the sudden realization that, already soaked, there might be more to gain from experiencing the rain than running from it."


"This is my world, Jace, down to its very bones."
From concept to paper to reality.

"The air here smells like a grave."
—Crovax

"Cut the beasts out from under them and their strength is nothing."
—Vona of Iedo, Butcher of Magan




His sword sounded like a silver chime on the glass jar, and the sprite laughed with delight.
The Knights of Stromgald struck Darien's Roost from two sides. They would have caught Kjeldor in a pincer attack were it not for Darien's tacticians.



To serve the god of death, Narfi forfeited the warmth of life.

"*This* is the place? This map has got to be wrong . . . ."
—Svania Trul, wayfinder novice, last words
"It is as if this world has been expecting our blessings."
—Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite


It's always up-to-date, so visitors know what rides are open, how long the lines are, and which areas are closed due to gremlins.

"I carry the light of truth. Do not pity those it blinds, for they never had eyes to see."

"Burn, suffer, and trouble me no more."
Defense laser emplacements are usually located at high altitude, where the rarified air does little to impede their range of destructive efficacy.




"Like dawn's first light, blind the unprepared and banish the shadows."
—Skyhunter creed







Many who cross Sorin's path come down with a sudden and fatal case of being-in-the-way-of-a-millennia-old-vampire.
Victory favors neither the righteous nor the wicked. It favors the prepared.

Their war forgotten, the nations of Bant stood united in the face of a common threat.




"Find your courage in a desperate moment, and you turn the tide of history. So sayeth the bey."

Thalia established the Order of Saint Traft in an effort to bring together cathars who would stand against the corruption of the Lunarch Council.
"Few natural forces are as devastating as hunger."
—Kaysa, elder druid of the Juniper Order
A deafening roar arose as the fury of an enormous vertical river supplanted our serenity. Eddies turned into whirling geysers, leveling everything in their path.
"The only way to get Mercadians to fight on the front lines is to give them really long weapons."
—Gerrard





Fire leads to more fire.

"To rise like the sun—there is no greater feeling."

"Nature was slowly heading in the right direction, but we know how to achieve faster results."
—Vorel of the Hull Clade
Imitation is the sincerest form of piracy.
Elspeth wanted answers. Xander needed a spy. Their paths were destined to cross.

"All matter, animate or not, rots when exposed to time. We merely speed up the process."
—Ezoc, Golgari rot farmer
Though she is rightly feared, there are relatively few tales of her deeds in battle, for few survive her raids.


Baby dragons can't figure out humans—if they didn't want to be killed, why were they made of meat and treasure?





Street folk call them "spire mice," but behind the mockery is an unspoken envy of the ledgewalkers' skill at avoiding harm.

"A hedron holds magic for a thousand years—or less, if need be."






"Stand strong. We will reclaim the dawn."

"A relic donation is suggested."
"The suggestion is mandatory."
—Temple signs



Its curve mimics the twists of life and death.
Cinder beliefs revolve around the Path of Sorrow, a spiritual descent into oblivion. They don't mind taking others on their journey down.

Whole again in honor and horn.
"Every act of destruction has a repercussion."
—Karn, silver golem
After lightning struck the cliffs, the ore became iron, the iron became steel, and the steel became greaves. The lightning never left.



"Death—an outmoded concept. We sleep, and we change."
—Sitrik, birth priest

"Phyrexia may be ancient, but Gaea is eternal."
—Queen Allenal of Ruadach



"We three, though of separate ancestry, join in brotherhood . . . . We dare not hope to be together always but hereby vow to die the selfsame day."
—Peach Garden Oath

"It's a difficult task to quarantine a plague that moves with the clouds."
—Esara, healer adept
"Some merfolk choose to rest their fins in the water. I believe wisdom exists not only where we were born but where we were told not to go."
"This little prize will cover your head, your spells, your bets, and your behind!"
—Pashad ibn Asim, Suq'Ata trader

"To a trained mind, the cold is but a momentary distraction."


"Whatever hatred destroys, a single act of trust can revive."

Fervid shamans willingly submit to shockers in hopes of glimpsing the fortunes of the future.
Shock one, awe the rest.


Is it at the top of the food chain or the bottom?

Pests feed on carrion, mud, and one another.

The vast network of predation on Jund has actually caused some strange creatures to adapt to being eaten.

"The Argivian University taught me two things: always look to the past, and never dismiss what appears useless."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator

Not all heroes die in armor.
"Charge like a red-hot cannonball straight to your target. You slow down, you sink."
—Captain Lannery Storm
The glittering scales in the Abzan vaults represent mighty deeds of the past and protection for generations to come.

"They knew Bantau was lost when, to hide the pearl he had found on the beach, he swallowed it—and soon grew wings."
—Hakim, Loreweaver
Atarka serving-goblins coat themselves with grease imbued with noxious herbs, hoping to discourage their ravenous masters from adding them to the meal.
To split wood with it would be sacrilege. This tool has but one purpose, and that is war.

Death in form and function.

There is a very real danger that the squeaking will rally nearby squirrels to battle.
"Approach from downwind. Tread with care. Aim for the heart."
"I believe many worlds will bow to Phyrexia. Mirrodin is merely the first."
—Sheoldred, Whispering One
The conquistadors surrounded the dinosaur only to find that it had outflanked them.
The thoughtweft is his informant, and he its devoted guardian.

A fight put off forever is already won.





"Which do you think is a better deterrent: a moat of water or one of fire?"
—Chandra Nalaar

"All Dauthi are jackals, regardless of breed."
—Lyna, Soltari emissary
As stoic as the marble halls, as unblinking as the stars upon their shields.
Crovax sensed that Mirri wasn't ready for the curse taking hold of her. Weeping in his heart, he fled.

Fortunately, the reanimation spell just missed the long-dead colony of dung scorpions.


Kolaghan goblins rush into battle to satisfy their desire for violence as well as their desire not to be eaten.



They are the masters of your mind.
"For reasons unknown to me, herds in the Arrow Bamboo Forest have become more and more agitated."
—Jiang Yanggu's travelogue


"Avacyn's protection is everywhere. From the holy church to the sacred glade, all that we see is under her blessed watch."





Fear pierces the strongest armor.
Some say they are the weapons of heroes fallen in battle, eager for one last chance at glory.
The knights see a mighty quarry. The dragon sees breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
"As a kid, I dreamed of flying on those wild drakes. They inspired me to build wings of my own."
—Nadja Cloudtoucher, aerowright



Eagles make fine mounts, but they're too proud to carry anyone for long.

Go ahead, tell it that it isn't real.
Cloaks woven from its webs are durable and waterproof but said to bring on nightmares.


Tergrid, god of fright, never acknowledges her own shadow . . . or its murderous deeds.
The stubborn Meng Huo was captured and released by Kongming seven times before finally surrendering.
"'Tis a shame, in such a tempest, to have but one anchor."
—Laurence Sterne, *Tristram Shandy*

"When justice descends, the servant will burn with the master."
—Aurelia


"The forests of this world are unafraid to assert themselves."
—Wrenn
"This one is for goblins, this one is for owlbears, this one is for toast, this one is for . . ."
"They may seem ceremonial, but their swords are still sharp."
—Kipkemboi, Kukemssa pirate


In the blink of an eye, she strode from deep snow to dusty waste. From the crease of light behind her, a voice rang hollow: "Saffi, wait for me . . . ."

Those who enter the copse never leave. They find peace there and take root, becoming part of the ever-growing grove.

Late at night, ululations echo from deep under Shiv, as the wurms sing of times older than humanity.





Many such monuments dot the wasteland known as Ifnir.


"I never thought I'd be so glad to see two tons of beak and claws bearing down on me at the speed of an arrow."
—Mirela, Azorius hussar
Once the goblins thought about it, they preferred being atop a slateback to being in front of, behind, or underneath one.

Enthusiasm is no match for preparation.
"You'll bend to my will—with or without your precious sanity."
"Life as we know it dangles on the brink of extinction. We must show the strength they would steal from us."
—*The Invokers' Tales*
"My people serve the dragon Kolaghan, but I give my blood for a greater lord."
Knowledge itself is neither good nor evil. Just as the wrong book in the wrong hands could doom all existence, the same book in the right hands could save it.


"If you need an example to lead others to the front lines, consider the precedent set."
"They say perfection is unattainable, but they said that about flight too."







Twigs broken underfoot in Llanowar tend to return the favor.
"It augments anamnesis. What is so confusing about that?"
—Perisophia the philosopher
"Not all paths are found on the forest floor."

Fire Elementals are ruthless infernos, annihilating and consuming their foes in a frenzied holocaust. Crackling and blazing, they sear swift, terrible paths, leaving the land charred and scorched in their wake.


To find its center is to find one's own.
First the insult, then the injury.
Few can catch it without losing a finger.
"Steady, recruit. We fight in the light of justice. We cast no shadow."
"The best expedition would be an entire team of me."
Drink deep, and find your vengeance fulfilled.








"The strong can also be subtle."



Valuing scholarship above all else, the inhabitants of the Ivory Tower reward those who sacrifice power for knowledge.
"Do not speak of this to the elders. They look unfavorably upon my indulgences."
Necromancers deal in commodities far more precious than gold and grain.
"Their buzzing makes my bones hum from a mile away."
—Galenti, treasure hunter
"Kroxa devours what he may—not for sustenance or pleasure, but because it is his nature. He is unending hunger given form."
—Klothys, god of destiny

"Those who seize power must have the means to hold it."
—Queen Marchesa

The "leaking spire" stands for liberation from Consulate control.
"When the wielder is strong enough, any sword will do."
—Kresh the Bloodbraided
The body grows stronger under stress. The mind does not.

"I see destruction, suffering, and one tormented glimmer of hope."
"I think of it as giving them another chance to achieve their potential."
—Nestus Wrasse, necromancer

No sheath shall hold what finds its home in flesh.
As Hedrax stepped into oblivion, he welcomed the unwavering silence.
An artificer once dropped one in a vault full of coins. She has yet to find it.

His imagination soars from the depths of the sea to the heights of the heavens.


"If you wish to assassinate a master assassin, you'll have to do better than that."
"Everybody but me—CHARGE!"

Automaton inspectors ensure that the Consulate's stringent standards for mass production are upheld.




Gix pierced his disciples' minds and savored their experiences as he took in their knowledge.
"A blast, an echo . . . then silence."
Memories that will technically last the rest of your life.


"Your ideas will be discarded and your will repurposed."




"Our foes are many and mighty, but not as many as the trees or as mighty as the sea."

One silvery blast signaled that she wouldn't be arriving at Thraben alone.



Scholars say that arbiters exist on every world, created by an unknown hand to enforce justice.




The unofficial motto of every expedition house is "ready for anything," a phrase whose significance has been amplified since the emergence of the Eldrazi.
"There are those who accept being told what to do, what to think, and what to say. Then there are the Folk of An-Havva."
—Reyhan, Samite Alchemist

The Eternal armies advanced on Vitu-Ghazi. At Nissa's command, Vitu-Ghazi advanced on them.
"The perfect assistant is one that's responsive, dextrous, and capable of reaching all the high shelves."
—Coruk, Esper artificer


Employees were instructed to refer to meteor showers as "impromptu fireworks."

"Looks like we're completely outnumbered."
"Lucky for us. I thought we'd be bored."




The stature of the fighter matters less than the depth of the cut.


"Gold without freedom might as well be lead."
—Angrath
"Though their ideals are leagues apart, Urza's and Mishra's creations have a surprising harmony with one another."
—Tocasia, journal entry

"Surrender your soul to me."

"These days, there's no shortage of food for the nulls of Guul Draz."
—Drana, Kalastria bloodchief
"Turns out the case of the flattened outpost and the case of the missing kitten *were* related."
—Endris, Drannith magistrate
Only one Eldrazi stood against them, yet the defenders were outnumbered.

The Ogre philosopher Gnerdel believed the purpose of life was to live as high on the food chain as possible. She refused to eat vegetarians, and preferred to live entirely on creatures that preyed on sentient beings.

"Brago in his arrogance let the throne's defenses fall dormant. Our new queen is not so incautious."
—Livio, Oathsworn Sentinel





The gracefulness of their flight makes one wonder whether Nature or, indeed, a rare sort of Magic lifts their wings.


To become king of the Goblins, one must assassinate the previous king. Thus, only the most foolish seek positions of leadership.

The Astrotorium has never been a place for self-restraint.

The ghostly objects around the kami circled faster and faster, creating a dizzying cyclone of motion. When it opened its eyes, it struck.


While it's true most Dragons are cruel, the Shivan Dragon seems to take particular glee in the misery of others, often tormenting its victims much like a cat plays with a mouse before delivering the final blow.


"It's easy for the innocent to speak of justice. They seldom feel its terrible power."
—Orim, Samite inquisitor
Lying to a fish is such an unthinkable act, most planets don't even have a law against it.
After the attack on the Vantoleone, the fragile balance of power shattered completely, and the city descended into chaos.






"Holy places are no longer sanctuary from death, and death is no longer sanctuary from anything."
—Thalia, Knight-Cathar

"Returne from whence ye came. . . ."
—Edmund Spenser, *The Faerie Queene*
Their grieving faces tell far more than a list of casualties ever could.
"The walls of the wicked will fall before us. Ready the siege engines. We proceed to war!"
—General Avitora
The foulest of fowl.
The continent of Ondu is a vast plateau crisscrossed by deep trenches and meandering rivers.
In front of every strong leader is a pool of loyal bodyguards.

Echoing hoofbeats can no longer be assumed to be help from the Gavony Riders.
Ghirapur's most celebrated inventors have been immortalized in clockwork.
"This big metal guy will make some amazing wind chimes!"

All things will crumble, whether by time or by force.

"Holy places are no longer sanctuary from death, and death is no longer sanctuary from anything."
—Thalia, Knight-Cathar


An Izzet experiment begins with a "what if," gets approved with a "why not," and concludes with a "eureka!"


"We are a clachan of smiths. The forge is as comfortable to us as a small fire during a cool winter's evening."

"Improvisation is for those who failed to prepare."
—Jace Beleren
When fighting spilled over into Giant's Walk, the aether weapons and swooping airships angered the normally placid creatures.

Create an illusion so strong that it becomes another's reality, and you can become the master of all.


"Concentration is key. Without it, a mage conjures nothing but a splitting headache."
—Zur the Enchanter


Opening Orazca unleashed more horrors than just the Immortal Sun.




When the Honden of Night's Reach began to crumble, its attendants swarmed Kamigawa to haunt mortal dreams.

Just be thankful it wasn't grammar scorpions.

"Build your towers as tall as you want. The shadow always reaches higher."
—Message scrawled on an alley wall
"After these words the magician drew a ring off his finger, and put it on one of Aladdin's, saying: 'It is a talisman against all evil, so long as you obey me.'"
—The Arabian Nights, Junior Classics trans.
Silumgar takes pride in the diversity of his sibsig.
"We order them to stand, they stand. We order them to wait, they wait. We order them to die, they die."
—Pontifex, elder researcher

"One day, the dark glory of the void will swallow the light of the stars once and for all!"
—Magus Lucea Kane


Ravnica's laws protect not its citizens but its industry. Aging equipment is destroyed rather than restored, to bring more money into the factories' coffers.


"Some relic hunters have given up exploring and gone to fight the Eldrazi. But I know our work is more important than ever. The secrets we uncover could lead to the world's salvation."
It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says,
"Orders? We don't wait for orders!"


"Would you like a song of wing-wind and fire, or one of gentle heartbeats atop a golden hoard?"
To an elf, magic and music are the same.

Some spellcrafting mistakes go on to become spells of their own.

"A good lamp will light your way. A good ring will clear it."
—Nervan, royal jeweler
The rulers of old Dominaria kept assassins on retainer. However, the true loyalty of these master killers was always to their peers. This elite brotherhood survived the fall of the old royal order.
Most wars are won not by those with the best tactics or truest cause but simply by the ones left standing.


"In every other mind, the battle was lost. General Takeno alone was not touched by despair. Drawing his blade, he was attack and rallying cry in one."
—*Battle of Akagi River: A Survivor's Tale*
The maze-like design embodies the core of Azorius law—strict structure designed to test wills and stall change.
Bravery outlives the brave.
"Fleshy, with just a hint of leather. A fine vintage."
"The day of reckoning is coming. Knowledge of the amphin may be our only refuge."

"No one can catch what won't be caught."
—Kakra, Sea Troll
Olivia was quick to make an example of any village that refused to pay her blood tithe.
Time moves in mysterious ways.


Only a thin layer of dirt separates civilization from an undead apocalypse.

"Mowu was wary that day, as though he sensed the danger ahead."
—Jiang Yanggu's travelogue


"You will serve me better in this form."
—Jon Irenicus

"The meek shall fight as one, and they shall overcome even the greatest of foes."
—Halvor Arensson, Kjeldoran priest

After the awakening of the Eldrazi, some vampires took it upon themselves to remind the others where their loyalty should lie.
The land is ever resilient. Should it die, it will be reborn.
The Skelle raise scorn poles in conquered villages—cursed totems of wood and bone that sap survivors of physical strength and the will to fight back.


"We cannot forget that among all of Dominaria's wonders, a system of life exists, with prey and predators that will never fight wars nor vie for ancient power."
—Jolrael, empress of beasts

"Don't worry about it. It happens to every mage sooner or later."
"You can face any danger when all of nature is on your side."

"Never taunt an embermage, 'What are you going to do about it?'"
—Akin, seasoned askari
"Like any pests, goblins must be repelled quickly or they multiply."
The continent of Murasa lies beneath a blanket of dense vegetation, its enormous branches tangled so thickly that some inhabitants never see the ground.

Its sting hurts, but death is strangely painless.

"Why do bad things always come in threes?"
—Gisulf, expedition survivor



"Spiritual wholeness is not something you can give to yourself: it is attained only through the divine blessing of healing another."
Some mages forsake their scrolls and libraries to learn at the feet of ancient trees and sacred stones.





"Hold the high ground, then bring it to your enemy."
—Surrak, khan of the Temur





Within the city walls, Adriana's falcons hunt vermin of all kinds.
The gods known to the merfolk as Ula, Emeria, and Cosi were nothing more than false memories of a monstrous trinity: the Eldrazi titans Ulamog, Emrakul, and Kozilek.
"We will defend the Worldsoul from Izzet 'progress' at any cost."

In its center is a single red ant, a queen that regulates the hive's movements.
"They're not half as fierce if they don't see you coming."
—Devin, Faerie Noble
"Lord Silumgar has given you a second chance to please him."
—Siara, the Dragon's Mouth


Before a woman marries in the village of Sursi, she must visit the land of the Mesa Pegasus. Legend has it that if the woman is pure of heart and her love is true, a Mesa Pegasus will appear, blessing her family with long life and good fortune.
"Llanowar remembers the Ice Age, the Phyrexian Invasion, and the Rift Era. So long as we draw breath, we will ensure such disasters never threaten our world again."
"I find its symmetry pleasing. It rids our world of offensive refuse while disposing of itself."
—Dolomarus, Proctor of the Clean

The stronger the will, the more bewitching the song.

Future, past, and present become one in the blink of an eye.


"For unwavering commitment and unflinching strength, the Order of the White Orchid confers its sigil. Rise, knight-captain, and do your duty."


"The strong eat. The weak are eaten. That's the way of things."
—Garruk Wildspeaker



With Thraben's army recalled to its city walls, outlying villages were left to fend for themselves.
Late at night, ululations echo from deep under Shiv, as the wurms sing of times older than humanity.



Ulamog's tentacles, their touch like burning ice, rummaged through his soul and stung his memories one by one.





Big distractions mean tiny nuisances can slip by unnoticed.
"Moonlight has a way of showing all things as they truly are—for better or for worse."
—Zilla of Lambholt
"We are all decaying, always in a state of near-death. One moment without breath and we begin to break down."
—Cevraya, Golgari shaman

"My conquistadors are never slain, merely laid to rest."
—Queen Miralda the Pious

Its breath doesn't assault the senses. It pollutes the mind.


Destroyed in one of the first battles of the Kami War, the town of Reito still grieved.
When no falcons fly, beware the sky.
—Femeref aphorism


Eyes are unnecessary for seeing the future.


The only relief in sight is a mirage.

It took all its strength to contain the fire within.


He protects the fetid bog from light, life, and the hideous sound of laughter.
The form of the sigil is just as important as the sigil itself. If it's carried on a medallion, its bearer is a master. If it's tattooed on the body, its bearer is a slave.
"Let the knowledge of absolute law inspire you to live a life of absolute order."

Many have the talent to create, but few have the courage to share their creations.

"You would never guess, at the terrifying sight of the man, that Hunding was as charming a companion as one could wish for."
"The nim raid our homes without warning. We must defend our homes without hesitation."


It didn't budge when the portal opened, nor when the ancient gods emerged. It came to life only when all ten guilds came together to face a common threat.

"See how gratefully this world accepts our blessings."
—Jin-Gitaxias, Core Augur
"It's right to fear those that you keep locked away."
—Rahilda, Vildin-Pack alpha
He lurks in the undercity, eager for the corpse haulers to unload their rotting cargo.

Wear it on your dominant hand and it will follow your lead.

"As long as your courage remains, your life will not falter."
—Sephara, Sky's Blade
The gifts of Jund never come without a price.
Three moggs, one treasure, too bad.

"The only question we need to ask is how best to fulfill the will of the God-Pharaoh."
They look tasty, but best to plant them.

"We're all food for something in the end."
—Cevraya, Golgari shaman
She shepherds mysteries and dust as others would a flock of sheep.

"Above them all is Truth, and Truth must be set free. If the wings of Truth are clipped, the voices will fall silent."
—*Song of All*, canto 167

"You can't learn to enjoy life's amusements in the pages of books. You must seek them out in earnest."
"I trust the instincts of any beast over the advice of any human who presumes to be an expert in the art of war."
—Rinshel, elf insurgent


"Your defiance is amusing, little mage. It's time you learn how fragile you really are."
—Extus Narr








"The past does not determine our present."
"I'd stand back if I were you."
Its courtyards are lit during every hour of the day so that night may never fall within its walls.



Sparks from Purphoros's forge fill the belly of every dragon.
"Glaxxar, Security Bot 254 has wandered off. After lunch, throw on a spacesuit and go find it."
—Truss, chief engineer


"Don't worry. I know the drill."
For every wound there is a blessing; for every death, a reckoning.
"My liege will lead and I will follow—to the battlefield, to the grave, and beyond."

To be counted among the warriors of Setessa's Leina Tower, you must not fear death, only failure.


A heavy net doesn't always mean a good catch.




Her hand gently beckons, she whispers your name—but those who go with her are never the same.
Lukka's bond provided not only friendship, but also the most powerful weapon in his arsenal.


"It's frustrating, isn't it, to be so weak and ineffectual? Don't worry, you'll be *compleat* soon enough."
—Rona
One shard of Selenia yet remained.



The Orzhov clergy would never cross its path, but sending thrull couriers to do so is cheap and entertaining.











The nacatl called this new species "vetli," their word for poison arrows.
Normally, a cerberus sleeps one head at a time.
Water calls to water, and the world is left exhausted and withered in its wake.


She protects the sacred groves from blight, drought, and the Unbeholden.
Grixis is a world where the only things found in abundance are death and decay. Corpses, whole or in part, are the standard currency among necromancers and demons.


"The time of salvation is at hand. Dusk washes over the world, and the Legion will rise immortal!"

"To survive, you must seize every opportunity."
—Daghatar the Adamant

Rath forces plants from its surface as one presses whey from cheese.


Its eye the glaring sun, its cry the keening wind.
Fallaji soldiers hated seeing loved ones' faces among the transmogrants. Ashnod devised a solution.

Countless delights drift on the surface while dark schemes run below.
She endures without Avacyn but secretly asks each soul she guides if they have seen her.

This space intentionally left blank.
"Every day, I fight for my life and win. Every night, I fight to remember my name and lose."

"The best skaabs are more powerful and more beautiful than the sum of their parts."
—Stitcher Geralf

Diluted, moonglove can etch living tissue. Concentrated, a drop will kill a giant.


"Let the rest of Ravnica sneer. One way or another, they all end up in the undercity."
—Jarad
Yarn unspooled, squeaky toys de-squeaked, upholstery torn to shreds—it was carnage.
Judge's ruling: The interior of the face still counts as the face, so a nose-pick is legitimate grounds for saying "Gotcha"


Not all shadows are cast by light—some are cast by darkness.



The gate of every kithkin doun is a cunning trap, intended to spill visitors into an oubliette from which there is no escape.



An emblem of a secret guild, the Dimir insignia is seen only by its own members—and the doomed.

"The horizon is the perpetual ideal, the constant promise of hope."
—Nissa Revane

"Molten blood runs through the ruins of the forge city of Phoenon, a still-beating heart whose body rotted centuries ago."
—*Fall of the Thran*
Why not ask the winds?
—Tolarian expression meaning "Who knows?"
No thought but hunger. No strategy but destruction.

"From up here we can drop rocks and arrows and more rocks!" "Uh, yeah boss, but how do we get down?"

"No, thank you."

Not every tale ends in glory.


Grave robbers digging down cautiously listen for anything digging up.
"The Lord of Murder has freed me from the shackles of mortal laws and gifted me with fire to carry out his will."



"Once great literature—now great litter."
—Jaya Ballard, task mage

"In the afterlife, I'll have no need of sleep. And until then, I have no time for it!"
During the Chicken Revolution, the king managed to keep his head while the others—well, just ran around.


Your father has no horns!
Your mother wears a bell!
You drink the milk of goats!
—Talruum taunts


"Mead down! Swords up!"

"How can you be sure you pierced its heart? Do you even know where its heart is?"
—Trundan, Indatha poacher
Blood is holy to those whose god is War.
"Naga shed their scales. We wear ours with pride."
—Golran, dragonscale captain

Among the first allies Urza gained were the people of Kroog. As a sign of friendship, Urza gave the healers of the city potent amulets; afterwards, thousands journeyed to Kroog in hope of healing.


Healers ultimately acquire the divine gifts of spiritual and physical wholeness. The most devout are also granted the ability to pass physical wholeness on to others.

The sport of Mage Tower was conceived as a playful testing ground for young spellcasters.
"What was once formed by masons, shaped by smiths, or given life by mages, I will return to the embrace of the earth."

Cao Cao's cousin, Cao Ren was was known throughout the three kingdoms as the fiercest of warriors.
Even an enemy is a valuable resource.

"The world is already run by all manner of machines. One day, they'll remind us of that fact."
—Sargis Haz, artificer


The mushrooms growing in the wolves' fur possess curative properties incredible enough to tempt many alchemists into risking their lives to track one down.


2014 Legacy Championship Winner
Glacian built his automatons to last, and last they did, beyond even the Thran themselves.



The priests plead for your anguish and pray for your despair.
Forged in dark hours from the flame that would not die.

"Then, just when the other guys were winnin', the sky threw up."
—Jula, goblin raider
"Wealth is a good thing, compared to poverty—your food is better, your robes are softer, and your companions have bathed more recently."
—Kipkemboi, Kukemssa pirate
"Just wait till I get my Gigantosaurus...."


"Your veil's curse won't stop me, deathmage. I have taken down countless night hunters. This dark plane is not big enough for you to hide."
—Garruk Wildspeaker, to Liliana Vess



"Nature can't be stopped. It rips and tears at Ravnica's tallest buildings to claim its place in the sun."
In the end, there was nothing beautiful to be seen.
The gods known to the merfolk as Ula, Emeria, and Cosi were nothing more than false memories of a monstrous trinity: the Eldrazi titans Ulamog, Emrakul, and Kozilek.
Despite the flames and devastation of the dragons, Tarkir continued to thrive.
A young baloth channels its energy into playful destructiveness. Over time, it becomes less playful but no less destructive.

"Still alive? No matter. I'll leave you as a warning to others who would oppose me."
—Vish Kal, Blood Arbiter


"If there can be no victory, then I will fight forever."
—Koth of the Hammer







Her bold movements are anchored in the careful precision of each rope.



Most Ravnicans lead lives of desperate survival. Those who thrive are malleable enough to change with the ever-shifting politics of the guilds.
"Petals within petals within petals, tadpole. The truth lurks below an opulence of illusion."
—Neerdiv, fallowsage

The first vine shows the others where to grow.



The most effective way to destroy a spell is to ensure it was never cast in the first place.

It has an iron stomach. Literally.


Lift your spear as you might lift your glass, and toast your enemy.



"He's got more finesse than most goblins. He smashes windows with his fist rather than his forehead."
—Arrester Polgar
"It used to be a lair. Now it's just a tunnel."
All the world is Purphoros's anvil.

Those who believed the city of Kroog would never fall to Mishra's forces severely underestimated the might of his war machines.

Caught between life and death, between land and sea, between thought and oblivion.
Just hope yours isn't full of coal golems.
"We need not fear the forces of the air; I've yet to see a spider without an appetite."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter
"I bring a dawn that no night can follow."






His enemies wondered if the lich king's brutal death and unnatural rebirth had been his plan all along.






"After the people flee, but before the enemy arrives—that's grabbin' time."


The only thing you love more than a good drink is a good fight. Luckily, one usually follows the other.

"My Master is the Beginning and he is the End. He is the Master of Mortals, and the core of our Dead Hearts."
—*The Saga of Khorne*
It pays to be at home both on the sea and in the sky.



The surviving militia members reunited with their fallen comrades sooner than they'd hoped.
"It was right here a second ago . . ."

Her mind was quite gone, yet she spoke nothing but truth.
"Useful . . . if you can find it."
—Pashad ibn Asim, Suq'Ata trader
"The primary weapon is nothing more than light. It shows them what they are, and they burn of their own accord."
—Aurelia

In the autumn, she casts her seeds across the streets below, and come spring, her children rise in service to the Conclave.

"Before Yovus was cut down at Pranticle Peak, she performed which maneuver? Anyone? From the reading?"
The essence of flame to stoke the spirit.


Stand against the crash of the river's rapids and you will know the power of the naiads.

Emphatic words with powerful gestures. Clearly this was playtime.

Unanswered prayers are themselves answers.
—Nantuko teaching
The mating habits of Treefolk, particularly the stalwart Ironroot Treefolk, are truly absurd. Molasses comes to mind. It's amazing the species can survive at all given such protracted periods of mate selection, conjugation, and gestation.


"The land echoes our intentions, and the kami echo the land. We must strive to live in harmony with the world even when it seems to rise against us."
—Diary of Azusa
He's set to compete in every race at the Fair, and he plans to win them all.
We're *elite*. You're not.
—Infantry motto

"Tools and artisans can be destroyed, but the act of creation is inviolate."
—Elspeth Tirel
Summoners of efreeti remember only the power of command, never the sting of regret.


Its curve mimics the twists of life and death.



The path to glory is forged in ambition.

The silence commemorates not those who've died, but those about to.
"Drana commands me. I command my nulls. And so her bidding is done."

You've always been happiest fighting for a cause you believe in alongside loyal comrades.


"On this site where Kjeld's blood was spilled, let none raise a fist or deny a beggar."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran Priest
Anything can happen when patience is scarce and wine is abundant.





Leave no mouth agape, no stomach unfilled.
—Granger Guild maxim

"Give up these unnatural weapons, these scrolls. Heart and mind and fist are enough."
—Zyd, Kamahlite druid

"When everything looks like a nail, you really need to get yourself a hammer."
—Krol, goblin furnace-priest

With natural laws abandoned, excess thrives.

When it walked, it altered geography. When it bellowed, it changed the weather.
She'll sculpt goblins, saprolings, Marit Lage . . . though that one takes a *lot* of balloons.
Some heroes line their coats with yeti fur. More yetis line their bellies with heroes.
"A mind in agony is a sparrow without wings."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer


Moving without sound, swift figures pass through branches and undergrowth completely unhindered. One with the trees around them, the Dryads of Shanodin Forest are seen only when they wish to be.


"I can't claim to hunt all creatures. There are some things in the jungle that simply can't be hunted."
—Garruk Wildspeaker


The constant shifting of Dominaria's shredded timeline played havoc with its atmosphere, combining savage electrical storms from ages past.



Unlike many hunters, these panthers have no need for camouflage. They're fast enough to catch any prey.

The Phyrexian killing machines couldn't have known the seriousness of their mistake in wounding the ape—they'd never seen it angry.
"Who will stay the Tyrant's hand, As ice and woe both grip our land? The helpless feel his frozen brand."
—*The Dynasty of Winter Kings*
"I have an eternity to know the souls who are bound here, to behold their every facet. But moments from now they will be gagged and masked, and they shall be known by none other."




"This scar? From a zombie's teeth. This scar? From a barbarian's axe. That scar? I don't talk about that one."

Though Shadowmoor's monster-haunted wilds beckon, she never leaves her post.

"Wherever I walk, the ancestors walk too."




It began as a flavor on the tongue, like a bloody morsel of roast boar—but soon the power was a conflagration in her veins.

Not all of Dominaria's defenders were nourished by the light.








The kor send their thopter kites to see if the land is in a welcoming mood.

You can swat a thousand gnats, but a thousand more will assail you.



"Yes, nature is stronger. You don't see little buildings sprouting on trees."
—Emmara
"The world is already run by all manner of machines. One day, they'll remind us of that fact."
—Sargis Haz, artificer
"Embrace every moment, for it could be your last."
—Xenagos, god of revels
After fighting alongside the griffin riders, older knights of Thune learned to admire a mount that could rip an enemy to shreds in seconds.
After Efrava was destroyed, the cat warriors scattered across Dominaria. Those who followed Jedit's example were strong enough to survive the ravages of apocalypse.


"The purpose of existence is simple: everything is fuel for the magmaw."
—Jaji, magmaw worshipper

"Some believe Sandstalkers to be illusions; those with scars know better."
—*Zhalfirin Guide to the Desert*
"Phyrexia's purity permits no other."
—Xantcha, Phyrexian outcast
"The Argivian University taught me two things: always look to the past, and never dismiss what appears useless."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator


"They say it survives on a purely bioluminescent diet. It's only active during the darkest of Indatha nights, making verification highly challenging."
—Gannet, Skysail zoologist


Coins of the Underworld are shaped from clay funerary masks.
"From void evolved Phyrexia. Great Yawgmoth, Father of Machines, saw its perfection. Thus The Grand Evolution began."
—*Phyrexian Scriptures*


Urza's metathran children were conceived, birthed, and nurtured by an integrated system of machines.

"'Tis the set of sails and not the gales Which tells us the way to go."
—Ella Wheeler Wilcox, "Winds of Fate"

"I was wrong. Zendikar isn't after me. It isn't after any of us. It's not evil or vengeful. It's magnificent . . . but it's in pain."
—Nissa Revane

"In memories, we can find our deepest reserves of strength."
"The land is swollen with mana, cursed relics, and secrets. If you puncture it, you never know what will burst out."
—Javad Nasrin, Ondu relic hunter


When enough artifacts lie too long in the same place, their magical radiation weakens reality, opening rifts of unpredictable destructive power.


Asked how it survived a run-in with a bog imp, the pegasus just shook its mane and burped.


Every once in a while, when they aren't getting incinerated in lava, crushed under rock slides, or devoured by dragons, goblins experience moments of unmitigated glory in battle.

"They knew Bantau was lost when, to hide the pearl he had found on the beach, he swallowed it—and soon grew wings."
—Hakim, Loreweaver


Seeking the company of plants ensures that your wits will go to seed.
"I breathed deeply, and suddenly I knew not who or where I was."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, Elvish Hunter
Kolaghan has no lasting home, but her disciples leave relics to mark her conquests.
Fragments of thought refract and multiply, surging in a geyser of dizzying insight.






The farther he roamed from Jund and its dragons, the more he felt their essence in himself.


Teferi stepped calmly into the fray. Suddenly the sun paused in the sky and the werewolves' snarls froze on their faces.
She swings with the ease of flowing lava and hits with the force of a meteor.
She had always believed in the transformative powers of great literature.
"Why fear artifice? Is it not also of this world?"
Originally, the rotors were used exclusively as particle accelerators for engine fuel, and they probably still should be.


The crocodiles of the Broken Lands, long used to feeding on undead flesh, eagerly flooded into Naktamun for a taste of something fresher.
One day it might roll over your foot, the next day your entire house.




The mind can only expand so far before it flies apart.


He raged at the world, at his family, at his life. But mostly he just raged.
In times of madness, people cling to the familiar, monstrous though it may be.
The owl asks but never answers.

They're fun to train—if you like stubborn, aggressive, and fiercely territorial.


For each creature that arrives in its audience, the sage imparts another piece of ancient wisdom for all to hear.
"Take your time."
"Approach my tower on bended knee or depart from it as ash upon the wind."
—Gadwick, the Wizened



For the first time in his life, Grakk felt a little warm and fuzzy inside.


She incubates her eggs in gold and mana.
Mere weeks later, the planet was scoured of any trace of life. Every scrap of vegetation, every drop of water—gone.




Any creature on a druid's shoulder is his family, any land under his feet his home.

To a dryad, every tree in the forest is both a doorway and a window.

"Keep with you only this much: your mount, your blade, and your wits. The rest you can find, build, or take."
—Horse clans' wisdom
"If you had just one wish, what would it be? Gold, or angel song? Finding a lost love, or finding your way back home? Let me sing a song about one wish that came true . . ."
—Ellywick Tumblestrum
"Every choice alters the path of fate."
—Sarkhan Vol
Such power grows the body as it shrinks the soul.



The practice of tracking and training Thunderwolves is a sort of initiation ritual into the upper echelons of the Wolf Guard.
At Sorin's appeal, Olivia Voldaren summoned the full might of her bloodline to gather at Lurenbraum Fortress.

The limbs of Pendelhaven extend as far as the meek roam, and reach as high as they strive.
"I've always made snap decisions. I'm just better at making the right ones now that I'm older and wiser."
—Teferi
"As the fell soil's appetite grows, it gulps down passersby upon their first footfall."
—Ezrith, druid of the Dark Hours

A full coffin is like a full coffer—both are attractive to thieves.

The vedalken saw the myr as toys, unaware of the intelligence lurking behind their empty eyes.

Every elf in Shadowmoor is charged from birth with a terrible duty: to strike back against the ugliness and darkness, even though they are all around and seemingly without end.


"Geists wish to make themselves known. I'm merely the vessel for their efforts."
It binds the five suns in human form.





"This creature has hyperevolved chameleonic abilities. It no longer mimics its surroundings, instead forcing them to take on its form."
—Simic research notes

"Use everything. Iron, rust, scrap . . . even the ground must join our cause."
—Ezuri, renegade leader
"And topples round the dreary west
A looming bastion fringed with fire."
—Alfred, Lord Tennyson, "In Memoriam"
All the birds of the skies are the spirit's brood, gathered for safety under its wings.
One pounce, she's hungry—you die quickly. Two, she's teaching her cubs—you're in for a long day.
"End this. What I seek is far greater."
—Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite
"Death and life are two ends of the same spear."




"Time flows as the rivers do, toward an unknown sea. The wise know to look downstream."

Urza's forces tore across Argoth, and Argoth responded in kind.


Devils redecorate every room with fire.
"Show them the light, my love."
—Krav, the Unredeemed

"You were keen enough to sink your fangs into us, vampire! And now you're afraid of a few little nibbles?"
—Udvil "Ratty" Ratlock







The wolf closed in. But then a strange wind whispered through the leaves, and with a burst of speed, the deer surged forward out of reach.




The purpose of any moat is to impede attack. Some are filled with water, some with thistles. Some are filled with things best left unseen.
"Ghirapur's gremlin population poses a threat to the infrastructure of the fairgrounds. Threats must be eliminated."
—Sram, senior edificer

"My scars are my sigils. I will wear them with pride long after you're gone."


The Minotaurs of the Hurloon Mountains are known for their love of battle. They are also known for their hymns to the dead, sung for friend and foe alike. These hymns can last for days, filling the mountain valleys with their low, haunting sounds.
"Let's go over this one more time. . . ."
Before any major undertaking, a Cylian elf seeks the guidance of a visionary to learn the will of the gargantuan ancients.

Tainted by a thousand fears.

One splash of the spring's water knocks you clear into last week.

Sharper than wind, lighter than air.



Though less well-known than its army of soldiers, the Boros Legion's mage-priests are as respected by the innocent as they are hated by the ghosts of the guilty.

"We thank the souleaters for inscribing our souls with subservience, to reinforce the sacred order."
—Drones' hymn of gratitude

Punchy was programmed to do two things: punch tickets and love punching tickets.

It treads on feet of coals and strikes with the force of a volcano.
Trained by a dwarven master, you see the potential in every scrap of metal.

"Shed your thoughts and let my will flow through you."

For goblins, quantity is quality.


"Only the lion knows more stories than I do."
—Chulane, Teller of Tales



"Through me, the Great Teacher's voice will rattle this world."
"Do not flatter Fate. It did not guide you into my clutches tonight. That was all my doing."

It's no coincidence that the oldest trolls are also the angriest.

"I was there to watch my brothers' quenching. I drew the slightest warmth from their dying rage."
—Illulia of Nighthearth
"By my calculations, I should be able to achieve true enlightenment before graduation."

Its ventricles weep venom, and it consumes only poison.


"Word to me."

Those with vision always have a path.
"Let the example of the fallen inspire us all to greater courage."

The rebels couldn't see where the roar was coming from. Then they saw it was coming from everywhere.



"Shackled the body, and the anguish lasts only until death. Shackle the soul, and the wicked can be punished for eternity."
—Inquisitor Laerin

"Our archers made sport of it as it fumbled its way up the slag ridge. As it collapsed we thought ourselves safe, but the foul thing carried more than necrogen."
—Adaran, Tangle hunter

When you lose Jetmir's trust, his family makes sure you lose everything else.


The insectile kraul lurk in the tunnels below street level. Many are loyal to the Golgari Swarm, but others follow their own esoteric caste system.

"Politics is a game—move a stone here, move a stone there—except sometimes the stones bleed."
—Shauku, Endbringer





The will to return can overpower the will to survive.

"Power-hungry eunuchs, the curse of the dynasty, have thrown the masses of the people into the depths of misery."

It seeks a tomb that will hold it, a coffin that will give it rest.
The mizzium-sphere array drove her mind deep into the thought field, where only the rarest motes of genius may be plucked.



He was born of the Mirari, thrust out of his homeland before he was even aware. Left without purpose or meaning, he found both in the pits.




Its beak rends flesh and bone, exposing the tender marrow of dream.


Made from trout scales and crawfish whiskers, merrows' shimmering banners flash in the water like lightning.

"What sort of life is that, huddling in the familiar and safe? No thanks. Put me right in the center of the action."





Negotiations reached an abrupt conclusion.


"Dean Valentin warns us not to consume the samples for our safety, but I think he's just being greedy."

Their stench was vile and strong enough, but not nearly as powerful as their hunger.
"When your enemy flees, send the sea to pursue them."
—Kiora
"Urza fortified every thirty miles on the path to Tomakul, creating a network of trenches the brothers would trade for decades."
—*The Antiquities War*

A sickness stirs in its eyes, a nightmare born in darkened wails.

For a ghoul, every village is a buffet and every disaster is a reunion.
In the moment of truth, it is as though time stands still, and the whale waits, suspended in the sky.




Empires rise and fall, but evil is eternal.
"The cannon wasn't aimed at you!" pleaded Vhati. "I'm not sure which is more pathetic," replied Greven, "your judgment or your aim."


The guards kindled the hearth and locked the door to Ellwen's chamber. By morning, the fire was out and Ellwen was gone.

During biotransference, the Necrontyr lost almost all individuality. What little remained was imprisoned within a living metal form.

"And the unclean spirits went out, and entered the swine; and the herd ran violently . . . ."
—*The Bible*, Mark 5:13

"Each year that passes rings you inwardly with memory and might. Wield your heart, and the world will tremble."
When a paladin undertaking the Blood Fast finally gives in to hunger, the violence is sudden, explosive, and complete.
His arrows are fletched with feathers from the greatest of the winged dinosaurs.











Morale rarely survives the sudden appearance of a squad of Sursi skirmishers at an army's flank.




"Until I came to the Floating Isle, I never had to oil the servants."
—Baki, Wizard Attendant
"There's nothing like a sudden shock to clarify one's thoughts."
—Pashad ibn Asim, Suq'Ata trader



"It is the fate of the weak to fall."
—Garruk Wildspeaker
"The cinders find strength in suffering, the elves in beauty. But if you make an elf suffer, he gets weaker. I wonder what happens if you make a cinder beautiful?"
—Hrugash, leech bonder

"One who ruled willing subjects would need no such protection."
—Adriana, Captain of the Guard
"As with any malevolent being, the trick is knowing how long you can afford to keep it in your service."
—Liliana Vess

"Obviously, the Firemind's mission is worth more than a few goblins."
—Pelener, chamberlain of Niv-Mizzet


"The ancient places of Ravnica awaken, stirred by the hoofbeats of Ilharg!"
—Nikya of the Old Ways





The shield took a year to craft, a month to enchant, and a decade to master—all for one glorious moment.
Without Vantress's knowledge, the realm would lose itself in darkness.
The gate of every kithkin doun is a cunning trap, intended to spill visitors into an oubliette from which there is no escape.

"Ice can be shaped to any form, even the whisper of a memory."
—Mytha, Temur shaman
"Any dream is a robust harvest. Still, I prefer the timeworn dreams, heavy with import, that haunt the obsessive mind."
Its spark is worse than its bite.




"Ribbit."

As the dawns break, the manta soars.


"The land is weary. Even Skyshroud is depleted. We must find another source of mana—one that is growing despite our withering world."
—Freyalise

Approach in peace or not at all.

It returns eager to share the feast of blood and gore with its ghoulish master.




The mouth must be pried open before rigor mortis sets in. Otherwise the returning soul can find no ingress.

"Touched by moroii"
—Undercity slang meaning "to grow old"
"In Rath," the priest said, "there is even greater need for prayer."

"Breath of basilisk, sting of scorpion, or medusa's tears? All may be distilled, for a price."
It was created by the Iquati as a living memory—one that objects to being forgotten.
"You studied hard. How delicious!"
"Is it not the embodiment of our aspirations?"
—Prokopios, astronomer of Meletis

Even the thrums, the lowliest of slivers, become deadly in its presence.


His mouth melted to slag, yet somehow he kept screaming.


The midway's games aren't so much rigged as they are insulated and grounded.

"Blasted drake's interfering with the conductivity again. Garl! Go chase it away."
—Ludevic, necro-alchemist







Guilds often exterminate those who saw or knew too much. Some vindictive souls retain their knowledge, using it in the afterlife to crush the guilded and the vile bargain that gives them power.




If you've never choked on the embers of your own spell, you aren't casting it hard enough.
Each plaguebearer is formed from the blighted soul of a mortal slain by Nurgle's Rot.

"Mercadia's masks can no longer hide the truth. Our day has come at last."
—Cho-Manno
The purple banner of the House of Vess is a symbol of death wherever it's flown.


"Amazing! And I was only trying to teach her to sit!"
When elephants thunder, death is lightning quick.



"How truly vast this city must be, that I have traveled so far and seen so much, yet never once found the place where the buildings fail."


"Any scrap of compassion that still existed in my soul was permanently snuffed out when they cast me out into the flames."
—Mairsil, called the Pretender
It is the forest beyond the horizon, the mountain waiting to be climbed, the new land across the endless sea.

"Some detours just aren't worth it."
—Raff Slugeater, goblin shortcutter

Mages routinely summon creatures from the Æther. It's only fair that they occasionally throw one back.

"Wipe your chin, child. We can't have Olivia thinking we're uncivilized."
—Anje Falkenrath


"Soul, flesh, even eyes—none of these are strictly necessary for deadly precision."
—Modriss of Zargoth Fen
"You see a bird, an oak, a packbeast. I see the potential for an army."
—Lalia, Selesnya dryad


"No mockeries now for them; no prayers nor bells, / Nor any voice of mourning save the choirs,— / The shrill, demented choirs of wailing shells."
—Wilfred Owen, "Anthem for Doomed Youth"

"There is no shortcut to work done true and well. The Creators learned this to their sorrow, the first time they made the world."
—Githri the Prisoner

"For its time as a mortal, Anger chose a shell of boiling rock."
—Scroll of Beginnings


The traditional kings of the jungle command a healthy respect in other climates as well. Relying mainly on their stealth and speed, Savannah Lions can take a victim by surprise, even in the endless flat plains of their homeland.
"As my hands touched it, I realized that I had not found it—it had been leading me here."

Greven il-Vec lifted Vhati off his feet. "The fall will give you time to think on your failure."
"Ach! Hans, run! Get the camera. He's adorable!"
—Steffi Bobsdotter, next words


Threefold were his crimes, doubled were his pleas, singular was his fate.
All druids seek to preserve nature, but some go about it in rather unusual ways.

A drop of humanity for a sea of power.


The essence of night to harden the soul.

"Meat *and* eggs. We eat!"
—Borborygmos



The cube's surface is pockmarked with jagged runes that seem to shift when unobserved.

Unaware of Lorwyn's diversity, it sees only itself, reflected a thousand times over.



"Etherium is limited. Innovation is not."
—Tezzeret






A living remnant of the Ice Age.


Half a brain rules the mindless.
"The seas are vast, but the skies are even more so. Why be content with one kingdom when I can rule them both?"


Earth elementals have the eternal strength of stone and the endurance of mountains. Primordially connected to the land they inhabit, they take a long-term view of things, scorning the impetuous haste of short-lived mortal creatures.
"When you are felled by my mace, you shall know it was divine fate."


"The Roil may be unpredictable, but it is not uncontrollable."
—Noyan Dar, Tazeem roilmage

"If you don't hit your adversaries while they're down, they might get up again."
"Here, there is only truth."
—Barvisa, Azorius emissary
"My sword is at your service, as are my scissors, corkscrew, and bottle opener."
"You wish for great destruction? It is done, my master."
"Whew. For a minute, I thought I'd forgotten the tea cozy."

The greatest masters of the craft abandon tools altogether, shaping metal with hand and mind alone.
From mite to mighty.

"The dim resort to violence, for which the nimble prepare."
—Leovold, emissary of Trest

Life is a show, and death its final performance.



His mind was lost long before his flesh.

"You've begun to understand the hedrons' true purpose," said Ugin. "The Eldrazi can be imprisoned."
"And how did that work out last time?" asked Jace.
"Remember by whose gift you ascend."
—Milana, Orzhov prelate
"Watch out for its teeth, tail, claws, wings, back, and front."
—Olga, cavalier

"Lies cannot long withstand the harsh light of day."
—Lavinia

Jort the Thunder-Mad spent his life perfecting a way to harness the power of the heavens.
High-wire injuries are down 95%. Spider-related injuries are up 3000%.
If there's anything a werewolf hates, it's a collar—especially Avacyn's Collar, the symbol of her church.
The crocodile's failed attack left it feeling both hungry and sheepish
Where the Oxidda Chain mingles with the Mephidross, oil-suffused metal crumbles away, leaving walls of blackened bones.
She nurtures each flower from seed to blossom, and in return, they whisper secrets only she can hear.
"Take my hand and dance to the music of the winds."
"You cannot kill it, not for long. It ripens where the ground is soaked with the blood of the slaughtered."
—Atiuru, priest of the Verdant Sun
"Anything that watches without sleep and fights without fear is a valuable ally against the Phyrexians."
—Kara Vrist, Neurok agent

He has the biggest bashing stick, so it's a safe bet he's the leader.




"Build a moat. If we're lucky, it can't swim."
—Syr Branigan, knight of Ardenvale
From deep in the caves beneath the forest, the hierophants planned the druids' raids against the enemy.



Those chosen to guard the Imperial Palace are not only unrivaled warriors but also lionhearted champions of the Imperial cause.
Yell for help, and that may answer.
"Consider this: the shepherd turns on her flock. Why?"
—Tamiyo's journal


"In the death of the foe lies the resurrection of the faithful."
Occasionally, an ally balked at wearing a dead Thrull as armor. The priests' whips, however, were usually enough to encourage a more practical outlook.

"It triggers the hive's period of aetheric fertility—a time when even feeding is a lower priority than reproduction."
—Rukarumel, field journal
"We sculpt the land into what we need—homes, armament, fortresses of war. Our strength comes not only from knowing, but from *commanding* the terrain."
—Raksha Golden Cub, leonin kha


Zombies work best when they're fed appropriately, so it's prudent to let them eat on the job.

With one flap of her wings, the angel beat back the fires of war.

Few can withstand the wrath of the righteous.
"You cannot be an Ojutai monk. They prize wisdom and skill, and you have neither."
—Siara, the Dragon's Mouth
"Most people can't build decent weapons out of stone or steel. Trust the elves to do it with only mud and vines."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*

"I do not miss sunlight. The very memory of it burns my eyes."
—Volrath
"With rage as your forge, your hammer can smite anything."
Even within the chapel's hallowed halls, the devils' laughter pierced his prayers.
"We are one with the wild things. Life blooms from our fingertips and nature responds to our summons."
—Jade creed

Sometimes the most radical thing you can do is think inside the box.




A master of tactics, the Lord of Atlantis makes his people bold in battle merely by arriving to lead them.
The shadows of death fall over everyone in the end.
"Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks! rage! blow!"
—William Shakespeare, *King Lear*
Some eat the living. Some eat the dead. It eats the past.
When the golden city opened, the dinosaurs inside were eager to greet the new visitors.

"Her voice is damnation, unyielding and certain."
—Phage the Untouchable




"The suffering of others is not my concern."

They could agree on one thing only: one of them must die.
They say the Zombie Master controlled these foul creatures even before his own death, but now that he is one of them, nothing can make them betray him.



Though Gideon arrived at Sea Gate too late to prevent the massacre, he still had enough time to lead its survivors to relative safety.


Boundaries drawn on maps or marked with stone have no meaning for the Mardu.
Scream: muffled. Pockets: emptied. Neck function: never the same again.

For the first time in his life, Grakk felt a little warm and fuzzy inside.

The continent of Murasa lies beneath a blanket of dense vegetation, its enormous branches tangled so thickly that some inhabitants never see the ground.
Hanna regarded Squee sternly. "Because it's *not* a toy, no matter how much it may look like one," she said, taking the manakin from him.


Each cryptolith twists the plane's mana, bending its flow to a singular purpose.
"They put bars on these noble beasts and then wonder why werewolves target our towns."


The sacred Anima's eyes are blind to all but the grandest truths.
An avatar he sculpts of fellowship and light.
Most books simply deliver knowledge. This one expects some in return.

"Um . . . oh . . . what was I saying?"
—Reveka, Wizard Savant

"The Na Plateau is lost. Do not ask what happened, and never return there."
—Nirthu, lone missionary
Tracking it isn't the hard part.
"The common folk call it the breaking of the crust or the spilling of fire. Geomancers call it target practice."
—Ryda, geomancer
"You serve Phyrexia. Your pieces would better serve Phyrexia elsewhere."
—Azax-Azog, the Demon Thane


Slain orochi warriors were buried with a tree sapling so they would become a part of the forest after death.
"Zendikar will not surrender, and neither can we."
Their Enclave overrun, the merfolk took refuge within beauty.


The dead serve as their own tombstones.
Tayil stood and breathed in the scent of wet earth. For a moment, he was home in his father's village, the battle but a distant dream.






It is best to conquer dragons before they hatch.
—Femeref adage



Occasionally a member of the Institute of Arcane Study acquires a taste for worldly pleasures. Seldom do they have trouble finding employment.

Dominaria erodes with each passing gust.
A model of Mirrodin in both shape and spirit.

"In the wilds, your true training will begin."
—Syr Alin, the Lion's Claw
"Bottled life. Not as tasty as I'm used to, rather stale, but it has the same effect."
—Baron Sengir

"Remember me?" Tahngarth roared. "Now I'll repay you for my stay on Rath!"
On the day of victory no one is tired. —Arab proverb
"From your veins to mine."
The delicate sprites carry messages for Saprazzans, but they refuse to land in Mercadia City's filthy markets.
"End this. What I seek is far greater."
—Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite


"Like fruits in the field, we will be harvested when the season is right."
The sky takes flight and the earth trembles.


"Just a collage of images: cryptoliths, the sea, a tangle of shipwrecks."
If a tree fells you in the forest and no one is around to hear it, "does it make a sound" is the last thing you need to worry about.
"They say Head Judge Tezzeret will be reviewing every invention at the Fair. I made sure to build something that will stand out."
—Jehvani, Vahadar artificer
"Don't let it fool you. Many of us got our first scars from Syr Nobody."
—Syr Layne, knight of Embereth



As fleeting as a cephalid's promise.
As the Adversary's forces descended upon the gala, Elspeth whispered to Giada, "I can get you out of here, but we have to go now."

"Human enlightenment is a firefly that sparks in the night. Dragon enlightenment is a beacon that disperses all darkness."
It sees itself in all of its creations.
"There is no future save the one my master wills."
A killing machine from birth.
Does it reflect the future that once was or the past that can never be?

Its screeching is the sound of you losing your mind.
"If that brain can't figure out the secret of the serum, then add more brains."
—Rhmir, Hand of the Augur
"Like us, the morning fights for survival."
Isthay iecepay ofay avorflay exttay oesn'tday eallyray aysay anythingay.
"Join me in the place of power, you risen dead. Join me where the waters weep and the trees have no hearts."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer


"Ashes and dust; dust and ashes. Hope it works before it smashes."
—Argivian children's rhyme

Centuries before the first peaks of the Oxidda Chain rewrote the laws of magnetism, the golems patrolled Mirrodin's featureless surface unhindered.




Draconic words need not be shouted. A whisper will suffice.
You know that hiexel bark produces a lot of smoke when burned, but why would Rilsa Rael need so much of it?





Trained in the arts of stealth, royal assassins choose their victims carefully, relying on timing and precision rather than brute force.



A true reflection of nature: death fostering life.


"Watch people flock to a murder scene. Then tell me we're not all a little sick in the head."
—Juri, proprietor of the Juri Revue


"Our greatest hope has become our enemy's greatest triumph."
—Restela, Alaborn marshal
A sumptuous feast with friends starts the new year off on a good paw.
Krosa's distorted groves bear strange fruit.
Out of sight, into mind.



Being surrounded by goblins is less objectionable when they're fighting *for* you.



"Peace? Its sole purpose is fear."
—Saheeli Rai

"Hit where it hurts, and always hit first."

"I have a plan. Actually, I have three."


Death is no impediment to dinner.
A blazing sun that never sets.

Step 1: Find your cousin. Step 2: Get your cousin in the cannon. Step 3: Find another cousin.
Its tines cannot be rung by mere physical force. Only magic of great power can start its eldritch resonance.
Rath forces plants from its surface as one presses whey from cheese.

"Once each year, the oni and other evil spirits paraded through villages to disturb mortals' sleep. During the war, this parade became a nightly event."
—*Observations of the Kami War*


These winged warriors meditate in flight, tracing mandalas in the clouds.


"Children, where are your parents?"
—Reig, wandering monk, last words


"That does it—I quit!"
—Cabal grave robber

There were many reasons why Shiv was not high on Sheoldred's list of places to conquer: big, fiery reasons.


"It offers you what you want, not what you need."
—Braids, dementia summoner
All suns must set.


"We don't like interlopers and thieves cluttering our skies."
—Dionus, elvish archdruid

Before a cause can have supporters, it has to have a voice.
"The fourth wind of ascension is Anointer, deifying the worthy."
—*Keld Triumphant*

Before Urza and Mishra came to Argoth, the herders prevented their creatures from stampeding. During the war, they encouraged it.


"There is great wisdom in rushing headlong into combat . . . if you're prepared."
—Kenjek, captain of the Thousand Swords
All the aether charts in the world can't compete with the trained eye of a talented scout.
"This is why we don't go out in banewasp weather."
—Rannon, Vithian holdout
Mastery is achieved when "telling time" becomes "telling time what to do."

"Our revered ancestor Seshiro gave us wisdom greater than poison and fangs."

The lucky armor stopped lightning and lasers, but sadly, also love.
"Five suns! Can you even imagine how complicated the orbital calculations must be? What I wouldn't give to tackle an equation like that!"
—Zimone, Quandrix mage-student

One alone is dangerous, and they are never alone.
As the temporal fractures spread and time itself slowly fell apart, visitors started to appear from across the past and future, and those native to the present began to disappear.
A grave is the safest place to store ill-gotten treasures.
Its victims are known by their eyes: shattered vessels leaking broken dreams.
"We must shake her limbs and rattle her brains."
—Grandmother Sengir

They're considered good luck by the elves they don't eat.
"Speak little. Do much."





"His sacrifice shall not be forgotten. Now toss his body over there with the others."
—Phage the Untouchable
Over 500,000 commoners followed Zhang Jue, General of Heaven, in his attempt to overthrow the corrupt Han dynasty.
You continue to mutter and complain as you trip over yet another gnarled root. From behind the nearest tree trunk, something mutters back.
Not an arrow loosed, javelin thrown, nor sword raised. None were needed.

"That which does not bend to the will of Freyalise shall surely break."
—Kolbjörn, elder druid of the Juniper Order



If it can't be had here, it can't be had on any world.

"No sign of movement. Looks like we've got the element of sur—"
—Gaiza, Mardu raider
"Some defy the laws of nature. I dare nature to defy me."
"When one wolf calls, others follow. Who wants to fight creatures that eat scorpions?"
—Maimun al-Wyluli, diary
Twilight falls. We rise.
—Necropolis inscription
"Lost are the lush meadows and verdant forests, where maaka prowled and lammasu soared. Lost are the wilds, where our hearts were free."
—Daiva, Gruul storyteller

When things get ugly above ground, goblins resort to alternate routes of passage.


Once a griffin sentinel adopts a territory as its own, only death can force it to betray its post.

"You don't find many old werewolf hunters."
—Paulin, trapper of Somberwald
"Plant what you wish to see grow. Listen for the stories you want to hear told."

It spins its web throughout the undercity, strange growths sprouting in its wake.
There's lots of time like the present.
Devils sow grief and harvest glee.
Wights want the world to resound with echoes of their own cruel hatred.
"I love this thing! It's my best invention since the boulderfist gauntlet!"
"The worthy shall rush to the God-Pharaoh's side with relentless zeal, rising to overcome every obstacle."
—Monument inscription






"Water shifts and confuses, but as ice it holds the stillness of truth."
—Arel the Whisperer
As war raged on, the young mages became more direct in their tactics, often at great cost.
Once a tool of kithkin farmers, scarecrows of all shapes now skitter and lurch across Shadowmoor, animated by residual rustic magics.
"After Auntie brushed the soot from her eyes, she discovered something wonderful: the fire had turned the goat into something that smelled delicious."
—A tale of Auntie Grub
"I've seen my share of baubles, minister. Whatever ostentatious bit of glitter you have there won't convince me to ... Oh my."
—Emperor Ayrelion


Crafted in emulation of dwarven hearth decorations, these devices doubled the output of Amrit Vatyam's forges.
The slith incubate in the Great Furnace's heat, emerging on Mirrodin's surface only when the four suns have aligned overhead.



The Cabal never expected its creations to create servants of their own.

"They are the eyes of the Baron, and they know your fears."
—Ihsan's Shade
"Morning light, morning light,
Chase away the fears of night."
—Gavony children's rhyme
"The raging waters had swept away trees, bridges, and even houses. My healers had much work to do."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest


"Young Vitima bellowed to the Cosmos, daring the gods to punish her hubris! Well, she got their attention, as you can see."
—Iskene, Kannah storyteller

A full coffin is like a full coffer—both are attractive to thieves.
"Through the haze of battle I saw the glint of sun on golden mane, the sheen of glory clad in mail, and I dropped my sword and wept at the idiocy of war."
—Dravin, Gruul deserter
Having flesh is increasingly a liability on Mirrodin.
Having encountered the bitter Phyrexian battleflies before, Squee knew not to bother eating them—or at least to stop after the fifth.

The Cho-Arrim call it "the fury of Ramos."

In fire there is the spark of chaos and destruction, the seed of life. In ice there is perfect tranquility, perfect order, and the silence of death.
"Unskin these impure bodies, Great Yawgmoth, that the flesh may welcome your blessings."
—*Phyrexian Scriptures*


The Sun Empire's cities are built from the bones of the earth.

Thundering down from Hammerheim, no foe could slow Bartel's charge.

"Selesnya thinks nature is a pretty plaything. True nature would rip their faces off and wear their skins as trophies."
To the sorrow of all, its web became a net that strangled those who helped weave it.
"This pestilence robs us of glorious death in battle. We starve to death with full bellies and drown trying to slake our unnatural thirst."
—Kerai Hatesinger, Kolaghan warrior
「私が与えられるのは情報だけよ。どの道を選ぶかはあなたの自由。」
——アルケヴィオスの神託者、ジャジ



"A great siege is a banquet to him; a long and terrible battle, the most exquisite delicacy."
—*The Seer's Parables*

Viashino thrashes are led by elders who have survived countless challenges.
Armodons are trained to step on things. Enemy things.
Each flower identical, every leaf and petal disturbingly exact.
Don't underestimate the aerodynamic qualities of the common goblin.

Untaidake is the needle that weaves the fabric of creation.



Nothing evens the odds like a little lightning.

Perfect justice in service of a perfect will.
The akki were surprised to encounter a human who could fight in the caves as well as they.



"An ancient, powerful force has overtaken the valley. I sympathize for its former inhabitants, but I rejoice for the land itself."
—Olanti, Muraganda druid







The battlefield became so pockmarked with craters and trenches that casualties were regularly attributed to "fell in a hole."



"Burn them from the sky."
—Varragoth

Enthusiasm is no match for preparation.
"You may want to hold your breath."
—Kellyg, merrow aquitect
Snaking remnants of nature directed by a body of thought and progress, the oracles embody all that is Simic.

"I'll be taking that."
Its screeching is the sound of you losing your mind.

"What was heads again?"
—Mercadian magistrate

Some smiles show cheer; some merely show teeth.
Each cryptolith twists the plane's mana, bending its flow to a singular purpose.
They all took up the cry, the missionaries, the pilgrims, the sisters of the Orders Militant. The forces of Chaos melted before the fire of their faith.
Most human scholars believe that Merfolk are the survivors of sunken Atlantis, humans adapted to the water. Merfolk, however, believe that humans sprang forth from Merfolk who adapted themselves in order to explore their last frontier.
"She grinned at me—a wicked grin. 'I hope you weren't relying too heavily on that, my dear.'"
—Medryn Silverwand, *Diary*








In a rare display of ingenuity, the Orcs invented an incredibly destructive weapon. Most Orcish artillerists are those who dared criticize its effectiveness.

Follow the light. In its absence, follow her.
Though it affords excellent protection, few don this armor. The process is uncomfortable and not easily reversed.
Before being presented to its lord, each shaku is blessed by every hero of every region within that lord's domain.
"I've always said full war chests win wars, but I didn't mean by bashing enemy skulls with them."
—Teysa



As the poisoned land spreads, so does the nightmare's rage and terrifying strength.

More than one mage has been driven insane by the sound of the millstone relentlessly grinding away.

Squadrons of skyknights are available for deployment around the clock, capable of reaching any district in the city within minutes.

Sent to find Sorin, Jace ventured to the vampire's ancestral home, only to find evidence of a deeper mystery.
"The more I see of this place, the less I want to."
—Chandra Nalaar





Its fiery paws make it easy to track, which is very useful when you want to go in exactly the opposite direction.

Orzhov mage-sculptors bring their stone to life before they carve it. The shrieking begins as soon as the mouths are formed.
"This is a sacred duty. Master Beleren's trust has bought an eternity of my loyalty."
"Only the lion knows more stories than I do."
—Chulane, Teller of Tales
Not all monsters fight with teeth and claws.
Changing Rath's landscape is like tearing the scab from a wound.

The flow of time was disrupted; like a flooding river it rose from its banks. Tolaria was drowned in an instant that stretched toward infinity.
The rod is a relic from ancient times . . . cruel, vicious, mean-spirited times.




"I dispute Relicbane's hysterical allegations, Commissioner, but it is true that these artifacts can be dangerous."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist


His name means "he who paints the earth red."

"Innistrad's ghoulcallers are talented enough, but let me show you what someone with real power can create."
—Liliana Vess
"I don't know where my destiny lies, but I know it isn't here."




The end of evolution.

A rock between your eyes hurts. A burning rock between your eyes ruins your whole day.



"I've been all over this world. I even remember some of those places."
"The Kolaghan send them at us. We kill and raise them. They fight the next wave the Kolaghan send. It's a neat little cycle."
—Asmala, Silumgar sorcerer
In an unusual foray into the humanoid form, Venand Kapur—known as the Gearherder—built this automaton to keep watch over his clockwork herds.
"The Blessed Sleep? Ha! Wake up my lovelies, there's work to be done!"
—Gisa, ghoulcaller of Gavony



It seemed as if no one wanted them to reach the Henge of Ramos—not even the dead.
While the smell of burning flesh is common in Grixis, the odor of smoldering brain matter is a rare treat.
"The gates open to my new era."
Wisdom is a throne, a seat of power that only the strong are worthy to occupy.



Tomorrow belongs to those who prepare for it today.
The daredevil racers of the Derby Crows, long at odds with the Consulate, were quick to join the renegades in open revolt.

To save this plane, he must forsake all others.



Crovax gazed on the dead, and for one dark moment he saw a banquet.


"Turn a blender into an arc welder with a portable fusion reactor and a frozen yogurt dispenser? We can do it!"



Cries of panic echo along Kessig's narrow ravines as howlpacks herd their prey.
The blade glows only for Zendikar's chosen.

Gnarltrunk didn't remember having quite that many knotholes.
With the spread of Rimewind's sorcerous winter, snow dwellers reclaimed their places atop the food chain.
According to merfolk legend, a denizen of the deep swallows the horizon at the end of each day, bringing on the cold blanket of night.

His bolas whirl like galaxies, but it's his enemies who see stars.

"Though it may take an eternity, I will see the myriad dynasties united once more."

"I was shocked when I first saw the aftermath of the Yavimaya Valley disaster. The raging waters had swept away trees, bridges, and even houses. My healers had much work to do."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran Priest
Open hostilities are strictly forbidden at the Inventors' Fair, but "accidents" still happen.

Each time it is sent to find a safe haven, it takes longer to return.
"Knowledge is power."
—Sir Francis Bacon,
*Meditationes Sacrae*




"Absolute power is the only true authority. Anything less is a lie told by the weak."
—Garruk Wildspeaker




If you try to sneak up on a rootwalla, you'll suddenly find yourself dealing with twice the lizard.

"The enlightenment I never found in etherium I have found traced in the coatl's scales."
—Ranalus, vedalken heretic
The slag-workers wasted no time in creating their own flare pulses to cleanse the area of the *incompleat*.

nothing is sacred.

Skulls for the Skull Throne.
"Be you, be free, live happily!"


Beware the generosity of demons.
"The meek inherit nothing."
—Sedris, the Traitor King
As Phage drank their energy, a vague memory of Jeska stirred. Then she lost herself again in the joy of her victims' suffering.



Age wears the flesh but galvanizes the soul.
Sun Empire commanders are well versed in advanced martial strategy. Still, the correct maneuver is usually to deploy the giant, implacable death lizard.


The scouring sands of Shefet polish its carapace, and the ranks of the cursed fill its belly.
It was built to withstand the ages, but no one remembers who built it or why it keeps its eternal watch.



Reach out and torch someone.


Whether mechanical or biological, life finds a way to propagate itself.
"Before the glory of Yawgmoth, yes, even this makes sense."
—Urza, to Gerrard

It withers fruit and flesh alike.
After diverting around the eleventh construction barrier, the taxi driver began to suspect she was being herded into a trap.
"I will wash you from my hooves!"
—Mardu taunt







Generations of genetic weeding have given rise to the deviously cowardly Ironclaw clan. To say that Orcs in general are vicious, depraved, and ignoble does not do justice to the Ironclaw.


"Tolaria floats upon a wheel of fortune."
—Ertai, wizard adept


Elves of the immaculate class weave flora into living creatures—sometimes to endorse an elite warrior, sometimes to create a breathing work of art.
Before a woman marries in the village of Sursi, she must visit the land of the Mesa Pegasus. Legend has it that if the woman is pure of heart and her love is true, a Mesa Pegasus will appear, blessing her family with long life and good fortune.


"Look there—they carry that one upon a sedan chair. It must be their leader. Wait . . . Oh! Perhaps not."
—Kaeda, aven scout
"Out of this nettle, danger, we pluck this flower, safety."
—William Shakespeare,
*King Henry IV, Part I*



Keranos is a fickle god, delivering punishment as readily as prophecy.

"Whoever summoned that thing had better confess right this moment, or the whole class will be cleaning the ink receptacles for a month!"

Victory favors neither the righteous nor the wicked. It favors the prepared.


"It's either terrified or extremely mad at us, definitely one of the two."
—Jonald, mission naturalist


Urza poured his love, his grief, and his hatred into the Sylex, and the Multiverse shook.

When a graveyard is full, the gwyllions rattle the tombs and unleash the spirits into the sky.
The Cabal loves encores.
Beware a scarecrow bearing gifts—especially sloshing vessels of acid.
Cinders carry an ancestral grudge that makes them slow to trust and quick to retaliate.

"Dance, and bring forth the coil! It is an umbilical to Gaea herself, fattening us with the earth's rich bounty."


"Living side by side with the Elves for so long leaves me with no doubt that we serve the same goddess."
—Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order
"Zendikar will fight until it has bled its last."




"We will defend the Worldsoul from Izzet 'progress' at any cost."



The Church of Dusk teaches there is no gain without loss, no triumph without sacrifice, no drink of exquisite crimson without a dying gasp.

"Across the plains, farmers who braved the mists began to vanish. Most blamed the goblins; none guessed the truth."
—Hakim, Loreweaver

Her bold movements are anchored in the careful precision of each rope.
Perhaps things would have ended differently had its first gasping breath not been lost in the susurrus of shifting sands.
The Quietus Cult holds their grim ceremonies in the dark places where unburied dead litter the ground.


As it walks across the fallow field, its awkward, loping gait matches the rattling in its head to create a haunting rhythm that chills the bones.

Not all shields are forged of iron or bronze.



The undead of Grixis are fueled by their hatred of the living.
Take two steps north into the unsettled future, south into the unquiet past, east into the present day, or west into the great unknown.



Like blinking or breathing, responding to an alarm is an involuntary reflex.

"I won't abandon the *Weatherlight*. My destiny is to serve at Jhoira's side. This 'illness' means I must trust my faith more and myself less."
Even when the flesh grows cold, knowledge waits in the bones for a master to release it.
"Let go your mind. Mine is fitter."
—Gix, Yawgmoth praetor




Voice of the Argoth forest, defender of its creatures, and enforcer of its laws, Titania is literally an aspect of the forest itself. Her power and her very existence are linked to the land: when the forest is healthy, Titania is ascendant. When Argoth suffers, Titania also bleeds.

As Ravnica's wilds expanded, even advocates for nature had to confront fiercer natural threats.
"I lost one home when Yavimaya was destroyed. I will not lose another."
The goblins revered it; the viashino defended it. Only Urza understood it.
The juiciest prey is that which grows lazy, thinking itself beyond the reach of danger.
"What greater testament can there be to Rhonas's lessons?"
"There are tides beyond those in the sea that are driven by Innistrad's silver moon. If you learn their patterns, you can channel them in fascinating ways."
—Tamiyo
As the blaze raced toward her, Syr Ameril closed her eyes and pictured Castle Ardenvale so her last thoughts would be of home.




The angel remembers her past lives like dreams. Her song held up meadows. Her blade drove back darkness. Her wings carried her across the ages.


Everyone who could still lift a weapon had a part in retaking Sea Gate.
"I've journeyed across Dominaria. Phyrexians are everywhere. Plague is everywhere. There's no place left to hide."
Its bewildered bellow was met with a stern "shh."
"Four parts molten bronze, yes . . . one part frozen mercury, yes, yes . . . but then what?"

"The beasts of the wild are my senses. It is through their eyes that all knowledge shall come to me."


He lurks in the undercity, eager for the corpse haulers to unload their rotting cargo.
"The centaurs are truly free. Never will they be tamed by temptation or controlled by fear. They live in total harmony, a feat not yet achieved by our kind."
—Ramal, sage of Westgate

In close proximity, their magnetic energies merge and form a field of protection.




"I rely not so much on the wisdom of age as on the overconfidence of youth."
"Any ship that sails on these mean seas for long is bound to pick up a ghost or two."
—Admiral Beckett Brass


The ooze has always been. The ooze will always be.


"The River flows. My soul returns."
Every world is an organism, able to grow new lands. Some just do it faster than others.

A circus acrobat in life, she kills with such fluid grace that even her victims are awed by her performance.






"More rope may not be necessary."
—Kep, Lunarch inquisitor
"By halves does youth depart. I remember halves of names, halves of years, halves of myself."
—Ogaro, wandering sage
Creatures displaced from time still turn up every year, stranded by the temporal disaster that once swept across Dominaria.
The remains of ancient civilizations litter the run-down land.

"I've been carrying a sword since before you were born. I wouldn't give up my oath for all the peace and comfort in the world."

To these fiends, there's no symphony more beautiful than the melodies of rattling chains and ripping flesh.


In the towering trees of the Samok Stand and the predators that guard them, the might of the Ravnican wild has returned.






"Just think of me as the storm before the calm."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*
The musical sound of its turning triggers the tumblers of revelation.



"If you must go out at night, bring a mob."
—Master of the Elgaud Cathars
Flotsam held together by optimism.


In a culture of beauty, the most beautiful are worshipped as gods.
"The elves tend the forest, and the forest sustains the elves. My role is to ensure that the cycle continues."
The eyes let flow with tears, then blood, then the very soul—the whole wrung inside out, dripping down into the blackened puddle of the past.

Mold crept over the walls and into every crevice until the gleaming white stone strained and burst.


The Thran learned to capture mana, but power inevitably escapes its bonds.
"Say, what rhymes with 'run for your lives'?"
—Ku-Ku, akki poet


Whether trained, ridden, or eaten, few goblin military innovations have rivaled the bug.


His enthusiastic curiosity puts even the most fearsome of beasts at ease.
Knit bone, darn flesh, Stitch skin, weave breath.
—Samite healing ritual

"I opened my mind to the immensity of the wonders around me. It was only then that I could see the Great Conduit."
—Rashmi, aether-seer

The Izzet quickly suspended their policy of lifetime guarantees.



"Kill a creature, destroy the present. Kill the land, destroy the future."
—Kaervek
"Is there anything in Guul Draz that *doesn't* suck the life out of you?"
—Tarsa, Sea Gate sell-sword

Fear is its habitat, sanity its prey.
Pray that it doesn't seek the safety of your lungs.

"Monsters dwell in every heart. We only think civilization tames them." ―Euphemia, Nexus watcher




Imperial samurai undergo strict training, honing their skills and purifying their spirits in the hope that they will prove worthy of a kami's blessing.

"Why does everything the Golgari touch end up sticky?"
—Arrester Lavinia, Tenth Precinct


Orim had no memory of the previous night—the first thing she could remember was waking up with the dead guard's blood on her hands.


"It's a vicious circle. Stress breeds pain. Pain breeds stress. It's simply beautiful, wouldn't you agree?"
—Vradeen, vampire nocturnus




"I see... elk? And lion? And... teeth! A lot of teeth!"
—Teraklos of Meletis
"The clamor of the city drowns all voices. But together we can sing a harmony that will resonate from Ravnica's tallest spires to her deepest wells."



"I used to hurl rocks and eat scraps of meat burned over a fire. Look at what I've become and tell me Simic does not hold infinite possibility."




Visitors marvel at its design, unaware of the other world that inspired it.
Some druids nurture gardens. Others nurture continents.


"Though in years past speculation was not encouraged about the strange ways of kami, now we must understand their motivations, if such is even possible to the mortal mind."
—Lady Azami

"First through the Riftstone was Genesis—and the world was lifeless no more."
—*Scroll of Beginnings*

"That phantom prow split the storm as lightning cast its long shadow on the battlefield below."
—Mireille Gaetane, *The Valeriad*
Fools believe that Kolaghan's brood follows lightning storms. The wise know that it is the other way around.

"These terms are acceptable to House Dimir. Shall we shake on it?"
"What is mana but possibility, an idea not yet given form?"
—Jhoira, master artificer
"If there were such a thing as a soul, I think it would be behind the gallbladder but above the kidneys."

Though many think of Wolves as solitary predators, they are actually extremely social animals. During a hunt they often call to each other, which can be quite unsettling for their prey.

"Trust me, you want to deal with me. My associates are much less pleasant."



The spirits of Argoth grant new life to those who repent the folly of enslaving their labors to devices.



It takes no prisoners, but it keeps the choicest bits for Phyrexia.
"Don't ask me what to do if you miss. They're stingdrakes. Don't miss."
—Orthion, Lavabrink captain

Goblins' motivational techniques are crude, but effective.

"There is nothing you can do that I cannot simply deny."
—Ertai, wizard adept


"A well-made wrench is a versatile, indispensable tool."
Aboard her ship, the *Dragon's Smile*, Kari follows no one's rules but her own.

Schools meet and mingle on Lorwyn's riverways. In the bustling interplay, the merrow renew their sense of community as they sharpen their wits and hone their trading skills.
"Remember the moral of the fireslinger fable: with power comes isolation."
—Karn, silver golem
The first to arrive on Dominaria from their distant home, the marids are the oldest tribe of djinn and the most respected by storm and sea.
Forged for victory in a time of despair.
Six feet of earth muffled his cries.
"Was this gift cast adrift for any to find, or did Thassa guide the currents to bring it to me alone?"
—Kenessos, priest of Thassa







Generations of genetic weeding have given rise to the deviously cowardly Ironclaw clan.



Only death breeds in stagnant water.
—Urborg saying
"Some have said there is no subtlety to destruction. You know what? They're dead."
—Jaya Ballard, task mage


"If you can build it, we can move it."
—Bes Tavani, Bomat merchant

"United, our roar will level mountains."



She wished for a weapon, but not for the skill to wield it.






"Those who can't survive are of no consequence."
—Tsabo Tavoc
The least popular goblins get the outer caves.
"What will be has always been."
@-Wall inscription

There's no telling what an accomplished mage might collect.
"I've seen cathars riding to battle without a hint of fear. Perhaps that is its own sort of madness."
—Esler, Havengul mercenary

To look into its light is to meet the gaze of history.
Eidren, perfect of Lys Alana, ordered hundreds of trees uprooted and rearranged into a pattern he deemed beautiful. Thus the Gilt-Leaf Wood was born.



An artificer once dropped one in a vault full of coins. She has yet to find it.


"Does it matter what it is? Take it and be grateful!"
An explorer's essentials in a wild world.



"From the clouds, you can see as far as the distant horizon. It's a reminder of the infinite possibilities of everyday life."
—Noboru, master kitemaker

Esika alone knows how to distill the essence of the World Tree into the Cosmos Elixir, a magical substance which grants the Skoti god-family immortality.
"The ground under our feet is a record of every slight against the world, to be avenged at a time of its choosing."
—Gavi, nest warden


"I will go to any length to achieve my goal. Eternal life is worth any sacrifice."
—Zur the Enchanter

"Uh, does anyone have a flute?"
—Rana, Suq'Ata market fool
Some crime scenes' secrets can only be discerned from an angel's-eye view.
Even what is lost beyond recall returns when coaxed by a dryad's hand.
"Let's play 'sled.' Here's how it works: you're the sled."

The wizard had it all—until she tried to use it.

「真実から逃げ出すのは臆病者だけ。」
――哲人ペリソフィア

"If you've got words, we're going to have words."



For a moment they stood tall, all fear forgotten.


All of Dominaria recoiled as Yawgmoth and his retainers arrived.
"There is a sourness here that I don't understand. When the land reaches out to me, I hesitate to reach back."
—Nissa Revane

"Embrace the storm. Its voice shall echo within you, and its fire shall become your touch!"
—Lovisa Coldeyes,
Balduvian Chieftain

Cartouches chronicle the initiates' achievements in the trials.



On Ikoria, reactive magic can make the difference between barely grazed and really dead.
"Ah, skull of shrew—a very potent substance. In powdered form, it gives thrice the zing of noggle hoof pulp."
—Boghald, Barrenton medic
Ral's storm crackled with mystical detections: Planeswalkers were infiltrating Ravnica.



"Mangara is gone. Who among you doubts that I have taken his power?"
—Kaervek



Subduing and skinning an alligator is the first rite of maturity adolescent merfolk must pass.


"Where once there was ignorance, Jin-Gitaxias brought knoweldge, and an age of progress dawned."
—Monument inscription




"We lost our homes and our kin. We won't let those rotters take our future as well."

"This violent wasteland is an indictment of its people. These cowards lack the will to oppose disorder."


Most see the Mad Mage as a deranged menace, but you recognize the genius behind his paranoia

Aphetto con artists started working in pairs to make it less likely they'd be the victims of con artists.

"Tell me again why you failed to capture Gerrard, you worthless pile of spine."
—Volrath, to Greven


Bitter as wormwood, sweet as mulled wine.
"The best foresight is hindsight."
—Empress Llawan


First, whispers of ancient days. Then, visions of things to come.
Like blinking or breathing, responding to an alarm is an involuntary reflex.

The angels appreciated the offer but politely declined to eat any birdseed.


When the eagle catches a cloud, it tears it into strips that fall to earth.
—Vec myth of the rains
The myr are like necrogen: a transformative force unconcerned with the changes they wreak.
"What's the big deal? I've been on fire eighty-one times. Twice just while sleeping."
—Devil K. Nevil, daredevil extraordinaire




"The day is mine! I sent three such creatures against my foe, then watched as my magefire popped her soldiers like overripe spleenfruits."
—Dobruk the Unstable, pyromancer


The perks aren't great.
"The tiniest ripple tells a story ten fathoms deep."

"When once winter has ahold,
Not willingly does she withdraw
Her icy touch, wistfully caressing—
The deepened air sleeps its cold."
—Aline Corralurn, "Late Thaw"
Better living through metallurgy.
"These eyes have shown me the flaws of flesh."
"When the air burns, only death breathes deep."
—Bogardan mage




It hoards Lorwyn's rare sorrows.


Once they learn the trick of carrying their own lamps, they never touch the ground again.

"Some treasures aren't worth finding, let alone stealing."
—Dack Fayden
"Run! It's coming for us! Eventually!"
—Yaster, Havengul shopkeeper
If only every message were as perfect as its bearer.
Hellhound packs roam the Spikefields, basking in the harsh sunlight and lighting the night with their flames.
The essence of wind to lift up the weary.
The longer it patrols the smoldering crags of the Oxidda Chain, the more it adopts their fiery temper.

It traps an explosion within its stony skin.

"Living scarecrows make a mockery of the natural order. Dead ones make fine hats."
The greatest treasure of the deep is an echo from above.
Planeswalkers conjured replicas of old allies, reminders of the homeworlds that would fall next if Bolas prevailed.
Those who forget the horrors of the past are doomed to re-meet them.

You can always tell the evil one by the dagger he's sticking in you.



Hope kept the defenders aloft, but only courage kept them in the fight.
"In the Tarkir I once knew, the Abzan revered their ancestor trees. Now, as Dromoka, they cut their finest groves to make weapons."
—Sarkhan Vol


"Squealstokers! Build me a glorious pile of Mirran metal. Then add yourselves to the pile."
—Furnace boss, sector 11
There came a rush, a sudden fire in the mind. Then the two saw only the sooty fog of madness, heard only the crackling of their last thoughts burning away.

"My enemies will forget everything but their anguish."
—Ambassador Laquatus

About halfway to the target, Snukk vowed that he had been tricked for the last time.
When a werewolf changes for the first time, that first howl is said to echo through the wilds till moonset.




"Such boorish noise is what passes for subtlety among the Boros."
—Vraska


By the time you've seen it, you won't remember that you did.



It is everywhere and nowhere, a place unbound by logic, just beyond the real.

"My goat was a small price to pay for the chance to see the hunting griffin dive and seize it."
—Pashad ibn Asim, Suq'Ata trader

These are its last days. It is doomed to be remembered only until the hunters hunger again.
In the cold corridors of the undercity, misinformation unfurls from Duskmantle like a spreading stain.

"That way lies death. This way, a chance."




Not suitable for children . . . who aren't ready to have a lot of fun!
From you to me, so me to you.
—Femeref children's taunt
Cast out of Garenbrig for his crimes, Ennor turned to fae magic to fashion the perfect weapon for his revenge.

His arrows whistle like a serpent's hiss.
"Savagery is the birthright of every creature that draws breath—or wishes it could."
—Karador, Ghost Chieftain
Amid this whirling hurricane of blades, there is no calm eye in which the hapless can find shelter.

"There's a smoothness to my magic here that I don't find on any other plane."


"It usually appears placid, but don't be fooled. The Luxa River is a snake, and it can swallow you whole."
—Neponem, vizier of Kefnet

They are extensions of the Tangle, stretching its vines into the furthest reaches of the sky.



Storm crow descending, winter unending. Storm crow departing, summer is starting.

"See how you like it."
—Ertai, wizard adept

Few things are truly "lost" at sea.

Mooo.
It makes molehills out of mountains.
With Suleiman's ascension to power, the djinn and efreets of ancient Rabiah learned humility.


"The face of Light will shine upon them, and they will know war no more."
—*Song of All*, canto 918


Goblin cavalry tactics consist of pointing a beast in a direction and hanging on for as long as possible.


"The secret entrance should be near."

Razia, archangel of war, demands total commitment.


"This one has not screamed enough to show effective implantation. Kill it."
—Volrath




To become an officer, an Icatian Soldier had to pass a series of tests. These evaluated not only fighting and leadership skills, but also integrity, honor, and moral strength.

"You can hear its tail thrashing from a mile away. Keep in mind that its jaws may already be half a mile closer."
—Jenson Carthalion, Yavimaya exile

"These pirates must answer for their ancestors, who renounced the Church of Dusk and sailed from Torrezon as heretics."
Tyranids flourish in any climate, dominate any ecosystem, crush any resistance.
"They think they tamed him, but he will always be a wild titan, a force of nature."
—Nedja, Gruul shaman


It shows not what you are but what you were.
Calix was patient, steadily following Elspeth until their destined confrontation.

From the seeds of faith, great forests grow.
"Blasted drake's interfering with the conductivity again. Garl! Go chase it away."
—Ludevic, necro-alchemist
"It is a narrow line between justice and vengeance."
—Crovax
With five lenses on its "head," it sees the world in a range of colors beyond ordinary perception.

Everybody knows that to ward off trouble, you knock on wood. But usually it's better to make a wall out of the wood and let trouble do the knocking.


"Stand where the whole battle can see you. Strike so they'll never forget."
—Anafenza, khan of the Abzan
A single ambition unleashes a legion of horrors.
Atarka serving-goblins coat themselves with grease imbued with noxious herbs, hoping to discourage their ravenous masters from adding them to the meal.
Be worthy of a single blessing, and many more will follow.




When it's finished, all that's left of you is a ripple on a still pond.
What it lacks in backbone, it makes up for in cruelty.
"Owls filled the skies during the Kami War, harbingers of darker times to come."
—*The History of Kamigawa*




"It's difficult to heal a rift after it begins wandering about on its own."
—Teferi

"Those who do not submit will be consumed."



After the destruction of Argoth, Gaea was willing to instill a portion of her own powers into some of her more vengeful followers.

In a rare display of ingenuity, the orcs invented an incredibly destructive weapon. Most orcish artillerists are those who dared criticize its effectiveness.
Dust and memory are all that remain in Ulamog's wake.
Some say magic was first practiced by women, who have always felt strong ties to the land.
When it rises, nations fall.

All raptors are aggressive, but ferocidons seem to enjoy their prey's pain.

It keeps the upper reaches of the forest free of every menace . . . except for the spider itself.
"Unimaginable riches? I assure you, I have a *vivid* imagination."



"Whew. For a minute, I thought I'd forgotten the garlic press."


"Headed to the wilds? Beware the dead riders who serve the Shadow Queen."
—Scalan, Edgewall innkeeper


"If you can't control your mount, I will control it for you."
—Mirela, Azorius hussar

"The walls of the wicked will fall before us. Ready the siege engines. We proceed to war!"
—General Avitora







Predators try to separate the young, old, or injured from the rest of the herd. The alternative is crushing defeat.



"We must all make sacrifices for the good of Innistrad."
—Sorin Markov
"Try to pretend like you understand what's important."
As a beaver's teeth grow unchecked without regular use, so does the golem's armor grow without regular battles.
"Give them everything you've got . . . and some things you don't."
—Ral Zarek


One part cunning, one part wise, and many, many parts demented.

In ages past, Esper couriers bore messages written on ornate scrolls. The medium has grown more sophisticated, but the principle remains the same.


The thrulls bred at a terrifying pace. In the end, they overwhelmed the Order of the Ebon Hand.
(^17S)180° = (Z->)90°
Cremation of the dead is not a religious ritual in Ravnica. It's a business designed to keep the Golgari from growing in numbers.


Many matches make more madcap monkey mayhem.

Hidetsugu never relinquished a grudge. He let it burn within him, gathering ever greater intensity until the final moment of vengeance.

When Raganorn unsealed the catacombs, he found more than the dead and their treasures.







Survival is a constant competition from which both sides can benefit.

"My medicine bag and I have treated countless wounds and illnesses. But never have I seen so many made so sick for so long. We will *never* eat Squee's cooking again."
—Orim, journal

Armed by Multani, she protected the forest from above.
The king went off to find himself. Imagine his terror when he succeeded.




"The desire for its magic horn inspires such bloodthirsty greed that all who see the unicorn will kill to possess it."
—Dionus, elvish archdruid


Their loyalty is not to any master, but to the pack.
The angel represents divine perfection; even the smallest feather is imbued with beauty and benevolence.
Philosophers say those lost at sea ascended to a more perfect realm. Sailors say they drowned.
"The umber stain of the Thaw will be bleached away. Once again the world will be sharp, white, perfect!"



With House Voldaren ascendant, some members of the Stromkirk line took it upon themselves to "borrow" from the blood tithes.


"Welcome to the Dimir Public Offices. Not responsible for death or loss of property. Basement off-limits."
—Sign outside Dinrova Building
Life is eternal. A lifetime is ephemeral.


The grave robbers were startled, for the door to the mausoleum was already open.

"The patterns of crossing ripples reveal the future to those who know how to read them."

"Inspiration is reciprocal: we all have a responsibility to each other to create."





Orzhov faithful file past to have their minds purged of "impure" desires. There, the guiltwardens eliminate any thoughts of hope or self-sufficiency.

"The first griffins were made by the gods to capture falling stars; they were given the keenest eyes and the swiftest wings, and sent to keep watch above the clouds."
—*The Cosmogony*



In the wilds, the ravens steal far more than baubles.

He holds the keys to a tombful of incarcerated secrets.


Dinner and politics don't mix.
Distant Atlantis charged these Explorers with the task of venturing into unknown waters to track the despised Viscerids.



Though Mishra was impressed by the staves Ashnod had created for Zegon's defense, he understood they only hinted at her full potential.
The arrival of spring's first flowers is a sacred occasion to Karametra's acolytes, who fill the Setessan woods with song in celebration.



A chilling fog with teeth of ice.
"Keep one eye on the cliff road or you may fall to your death. Keep one eye on the sky or your death may fall on you."
—Manfried Ulmach, Elgaud Master-at-Arms



Wary of the ferocious dinosaurs, the Legion of Dusk built up the walls of their fort—just in time for the pirates to burn them down.
It thinks, therefore you aren't.
Baby dragons can't figure out humans@-if they didn't want to be killed, why were they made of meat and treasure?
"I am the banisher, the ill will that snuffs the final candle."
—Seal inscription
Sometimes the weight of the world on your shoulders is a literal one.
The foyer is littered with the coins it demands but can no longer hold.

Phyrexia wastes nothing. Its food chain is a spiraling cycle.


The helix was the finest example of Mishra's campaign strategy: if he couldn't have Argoth, no one could.


Beneath Ravnica's streets runs a layer of tunnels, then caverns, then waterways, then terrors and nightmares.
"We'll distract them. The rest of you, get out of here!"
—Alux, Skysail defender


"I came seeking a challenge. All I found was you."
—Zurgo, khan of the Mardu



Treachery and anarchy make poor partners.
The commander tells the troops where to go, but the standard reminds them why they're there.

Aramil issued a long, heroic challenge, then the lich felled him with a single word.



"When gods become apathetic, the people will worship anyone who answers their pleas."
—Kiora


"Have you ever cornered a wounded vampire? That's a walk in the cathedral garden in comparison."
—Tristen, Cathar Marshal
"These days, soldiers never stick around long enough for a proper healing. They just want me to knit them up so they can hurry back to the fight."



As brilliant as a cut diamond, and with just as cruel an edge.

Strixhaven's five colleges encourage natural rivalries among the students, but some bonds transcend all barriers.


Your family needed a farmer, so you tilled. Your town needed a fighter, so you trained. When your people needed a leader, you knew what you had to do.


It fuels its lanterns by leaching the warmth from its surroundings.
"Up and at 'em, buddy. We've got more work to do."
"It was probably a lousy spell in the first place."
—Ertai, wizard adept
Don't underestimate the aerodynamic qualities of the common goblin.
"Life grows everywhere. My kin merely find those places where it grows strongest."
—Nissa Revane


Trod on by a gargadon
—Kipamu expression meaning "wiped out"


"Such an adorable face!"
It is taller than all but the tallest trees, and older than all but the oldest.
"But *why* can't I get one?" sniveled Squee. "All da bugs here got wings."
The Curse of Wandering leaves only hatred.
"This isn't what I meant by 'facing the heat of battle!'"
—Jefan, Talas ship captain
"I'll make ice chimes of your bones."
"If the Consulate has abandoned restraint, so too shall the wilds."
—Surash, keeper of the Cowl
Light streaked down from the heavens, and a voice whispered in the soldier's ear: "You shall not fall today."


"I embrace all of Alara, Grixis as much as Bant. Let my former home call me traitor. I do this not for accolades, but because it is right."

"The best kind of treasure is the kind that leads to more treasure!"
—Captain Lannery Storm
"Of course it can be yours. Anything is possible for the right price. Speaking of which . . ."

The ruins of Old Prahv became a wildspace, although all birdsong was silenced by lingering Azorius magic.
I cast a thousand tiny suns— Beware my many dawns.
Seeing it coming a mile away is little comfort if you can't get out of range in time.
"When they covered the world in city, all they did was give themselves nowhere to run."
The sound of the trumpet is both warning and comfort: it tells of approaching danger but also reminds the village folk that someone is there to stand against it.





While exploring the sacred cave of Koilos with his brother Mishra and their master Tocasia, Urza fell behind in the Hall of Tagsin, where he discovered the remarkable Mightstone.




The Quicksilver Sea hissed and bubbled at the indignity. The Vulshok shaman just smiled.
Purity rejects artifice.
"It certainly takes after its master: big and brutish, and you can smell it from a mile away."
—Liliana Vess
"Her voice is the wilderness, savage and pure."
—Kamahl, druid acolyte

"It's not a matter of deserving. It's a matter of strength. The power to hold versus the power to take."


One bone broken for every twig snapped underfoot.
—Llanowar penalty for trespassing

The peaks of Hurloon never fall silent.






Ravnica would be safer if mere coin was all the Dimir could steal.
"Though the letter was many pages long, I could tell all I needed to know from one look at the messenger's face."
—Barrin, master wizard

Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.
"The soul sheds light, and death is its shadow. When the light dims, life and death embrace."
—Nantuko teaching


Those who seek to escape her blades succeed only in dying on their stomachs.

Flora and fauna alike rose to Yavimaya's defense.
"But no one heard the snake's gentle hiss for peace over the elephant's trumpeting of war."
—Afari, *Tales*

The path to unity is forged in understanding.
"And if you threaten me again, your shiny steel trousers will be sprouting daggerthorn vines."
—Iveta, rooftop runner







Once a servant of the light, now a slave to the dark.

"Do not concern yourself with my origin, my race, or my ancestry. Seek my record in the pits, and then make your wager."




"The battle is won. There's work to be done. / The Blessed Sleep must wait. / A fiend is about. It stalks the devout. / I'll save them from my fate."
—"The Good Geist's Vow"
Don't try to outrun one of Dominia's Grizzlies; it'll catch you, knock you down, and eat you. Of course, you could run up a tree. In that case you'll get a nice view before it knocks the tree down and eats you.



"Purity of magic can only come from purity of the land. How can a meal nourish if the ingredients are spoiled?" —Sidaine of Savaen
Chainer's dark gift to a darker soul.
They were formidable even before they learned the use of weapons.
These are its last days. But it will not go quietly.

Rumors quickly spread among thieves about a labyrinth without walls and a prize beyond all measures of worth.



"Our duty does not stop at our borders."

2012 Vintage Championship Winner
Baby dragons can't figure out humans—if they didn't want to be killed, why were they made of meat and treasure?


"Automatons are fast, precise, and tireless, but they all share one weakness: predictability. Learn their patterns. Strike when they're vulnerable."
—Horance, Urzan general
In nature, not a single bone or scrap of flesh goes to waste.
"The White Shield is not the burnished metal you lash to your forearm but the conviction that burns in your chest."
—Lucilde Fiksdotter, leader of the Order of the White Shield

"We're going to need more butter."
—Ghoulcaller Gisa







2018 Asia Vintage Champion


"Yes, I think 'toast' is an appropriate description."
—Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
"No matter how far we push into Stensia, undeath will always remain in these lands."
—Terhold, archmage of Drunau

"It's only torture if you're strong enough to survive. Otherwise, it's a simple, gruesome death. I'm happy either way."
—Liliana Vess
Each Eldrazi ancient spawned a lineage of horrors in unfathomable shapes.


When properly aligned, hedrons become powerful tools of binding.
Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.


For a moment they stood tall, all fear forgotten.

"Until this expedition is done, that blade is your guardian, your liberator, and your best friend all rolled into one."
—Yon Basrel, Oran-Rief survivalist


"As I stepped into the star arch, it all became perfectly clear. Life and death are not opposites, but an endless path, twisting around and back upon itself, never ending and never beginning."
—Zhaer, professor of biophilosophy
Whether he actually exists is in question, but the terror she feels is excruciatingly real.
Quick enough to avoid jhovalls when alone and fierce enough to attack them in packs, the hounds were as at home in the mountains as the Mercadians were atop theirs.
Many who cross Sorin's path come down with a sudden and fatal case of being-in-the-way-of-a-millennia-old-vampire.


It has no safe side.



"Ravnica, like a hedge, must be pruned, leaving only leaves of verdant uniformity."
—Niszka, Selesnya evangel
"If it wasn't a blackened, stinking, melted abomination before, it certainly is now."
—Koth of the Hammer
"Take one wrong step out here and you're dead. I take only right steps."
When a tree falls in the forest, Multani hears it.



"Our noble land, enslaved by Rime, Is it our fate to freeze through time? If this be true, oh wicked crime."
—*The Dynasty of Winter Kings*

The Temur welcome bears into the clan, fighting alongside them in battle. The relationship dates back to when they labored side by side under Sultai rule.



You don't so much hire goblins as put ideas in their heads.
Massive, mindless, and imbued with one terrible purpose.
It doesn't need to breathe, but the suit does help keep the parts together.
As long as it's never left empty, this magic pouch produces coins every dawn.


The songs of angels are perceived not as words in the ears but as stirrings in the soul.
She follows the old tributaries built when merrows still shaped the tides.
"Charge brothers! Death to the false Emperor!"





The Joraga elves never need ask a troll to leave their territory. They merely grant it their combined strength, and it can't resist embarking on a merry rampage.


Feldon found the first of these canes frozen in the Ronom Glacier.


"A good ride should always feel like something has gone terribly wrong."
—*Salzon's Ride Review*
Go forth with honor, return with glory.
"The ground is where wars are waged, but the air is where they are won."
—Harbin, vanguard aviator
"This may hurt a lot."



"The dragon is a perfect marriage of power and the will to use it."
—Sarkhan Vol
"Only one man survived, barely sane. He got out two words before collapsing: shadows' shadows."
"It wandered slowly across the landscape, calling out in its lonely voice, but no other castles answered its cries."
—*Beyond the Great Henge*
It wheeled upward, away from the shrieks and thunder. It reached the point where sky met smoke, and, but with a glance at the horizon, aimed itself and dove.
"Were they to reduce us to ash, we would clog their throats and sting their eyes in payment."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain


Everything is flammable in the Burning Isles, even the mana itself.



The carved cliffs of Pillardrop thrum with the sounds of ancient spirits rising from the past.
"Do not speak of this to the elders. They look unfavorably upon my indulgences."
Never underestimate the power of the soul unleashed.
"Our own selves are the greatest obstacles to enlightenment."
—Narset, khan of the Jeskai

"Humans bring nothing but suffering and deceit. They are not welcome in my forest."
"If you believe the God-Pharaoh tests you, charge with me to prove yourself. If you believe he betrayed us all, join with me to fight for tomorrow!"
—Samut, former Tah-crop initiate
No guilds—that is her rule. The House vampires unnerve her. The Combine would dissect her, the Legion burn her, the Conclave "cure" her. The shadows are all the family she needs.
"I'll make sure you never mistake a roper for a stalagmite again."
In their final moments, the demons gazed upon grace in its purest form.








"From monarch to mulch as quick as could be."
—*The Dethroner's Grimoire*
Any creature on a druid's shoulder is his family, any land under his feet his home.
"They are my bulwark against the Terror. They are the Defenders of Humanity. They are my Space Marines."
—The Emperor of Mankind

Its fangs are in your flesh before its hiss leaves your ears.
"If you ever want to leave this forest, now's the time."


"Which do you deserve, the heft of a femur or the graceful sharpness of a forearm? Decisions, decisions . . ."
—Gisa the Mad

After their first encounter, the goblins named him Chuck.


"Know your foes' strengths as well as their weaknesses."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi machinist
"In our hands, the natural world finds more beauty than nature alone could ever provide."


The vedalken embed such urns in their living artifact creations.


Masters of the arcane savor a delicious irony. Their study of deep and complex arcana leads to such a simple end: the ability to say merely yes or no.
There's no stronger armor than the bravery of those beside you.
The most terrifying thing about the craw wurm is probably the horrible crashing sound it makes as it speeds through the forest. This noise is so loud it echoes through the trees and seems to come from all directions at once.


"In my moment of death, I had a vision of the world, dark and unwelcoming. I wanted to hide in the deepest meander, but the light pulled me back."
"I will wield the stone of my homeland as though it were the fists of the Ancestor."

"To survive up here, I've learned when to use my harpoon and when to just enjoy the view."
—Kadhu, skywhaler
"'Tis the set of sails, and not the gales, Which tell us the way to go."
—Ella Wheeler Wilcox, "Winds of Fate"
"Me? No, I'm not going to kill you. I won't even lay a finger on you. I promise."
—Kiku, Night's Flower
When Asha left Bant, she ensured that the world would have protection and order in her absence.

To the Rakdos, screams of delight and screams of terror are one and the same.



"They groaned, they stirred, they all uprose,/ Nor spake, nor moved their eyes;/ It had been strange, even in a dream,/ To have seen those dead men rise."/ —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
Reports differed on whether the figure was an automaton or a mage, mostly because few who saw it survived.

Its buzzing is the sound of its inner mechanisms, ever winding down.

Some fiendish mage had created a horrifying wall of living flesh, patched together from a jumble of still-recognizable body parts. As we sought to hew our way through it, some unknown power healed the gaping wounds we cut, denying us passage.
"In desperation, Konda sent warriors to parley with the ogre-magi. No one knows whether they were slaughtered at Shinka or if they even reached its bloodstained walls."
—*Observations of the Kami War*
"Fear this no more!"
Sins that would be too gruesome in the light of day are made more pleasing in the dark of night.


The mind is a beautiful bounty encased in an annoying bone container.
Ambidexterity is common among kithkin. The thoughtweft links the minds of the left- and right-handed, giving each the knack of the other.


"Behold astronomy's contribution to war."
—Fennor Rhyl, starcaller

Few believe Duskmantle exists. Fewer find it. None live to bear witness.



"My lance was once wielded by Venerable Tarrian. In his name and by his might, I cast you down!"




It harmonizes with the essence of its master.


"You lived for Serra's love. Will you not die for it?"

Many necromancers share the same last words—the ones that conclude the undeath ritual.
"To fill your mind with knowledge, we must start by emptying it."
—Barrin, master wizard
"Wait, it was just guarding a bunch of eggs! Where is the treasure?"
—Xalcorin the bard
Sudden vengeance, echoing fury.

"That's a pretty ring! Trade you my knife for it."
There are places so horrible that even the dead hide their faces.
Wights want the world to resound with echoes of their own cruel hatred.
Niv-Mizzet's genius and vanity reverberate throughout the mirrored halls of Nivix.




"Cypress leaves for family, larkspur for protection, amaranth for a bountiful harvest."

Upon scattering her grandmother's ashes, the Envoy was bathed in a warm spectral glow.

"Within the song of Mat'Selesnya, one becomes all."
@-Heruj, Selesnya hierophant
"Life can be found in all things, even things unnatural."
—Multani, maro-sorcerer


"Only by the bravery of those who put loyalty above glory is our home kept safe."
—Elspeth Tirel










Drownyard floods and unnatural frost made the once peaceful boardwalk deceptively treacherous.
Their fires burn quietly, allowing the phoenixes to glide silently through the canyon.
Kondo served as guardian to the infant Gerrard and raised him alongside his own son, Vuel. He taught both boys to be strong and to lead, but whereas Gerrard became a champion of honor, Vuel's bitterness led him to become an equally devastating force of malice.
"I almost envy them. They can't get frostbite."
—Kirada, Silumgar enforcer

The orcs believe Sek'Kuar still lives in the Karplusan Mountains, gathering his dead army, intent on revenge.
"In Barrin's name!" cried Lyna as Hanna's sword passed through her, "Ertai sends word that the portal is open—but not for long!"


Together the soldiers were like a golden blade, cutting down their enemies and scarring the darkness.

"In this new world, I have seen the once-devout rhoxes take up arms with the savages of Jund. I would be offended, but I see the wisdom in their choice."
—Gernan, Dawnray archer

"Never stop 'til you see your lance come out the other side."
—Telim'Tor
"You may even see them again. Full digestion takes three hundred years."
Only a thin layer of dirt separates civilization from an undead apocalypse.





War begins with one red ember.
His family was the first to reach out to the human monks. He soon knew as many koans as he did blade strikes.


"Goblins cry, soldiers fly.
Stones fly, soldiers die!"

It's an experience you'll never forget.
"The Simic come from the cold slow depths. How could they understand the fire in a wild heart?"
—Kroshkar, Gruul shaman
"Do not mistake a quiet rampart for one that is unguarded. Some things stir only when they need to."
—Bonovar, siege commander

"We often bury our pasts, and then someone comes along and digs them up."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*
Kaladesh's illicit marketplaces are known as "night markets," but if you know who to ask, you can find what you're looking for at any time of the day.

"Days ago, you came to my door asking for help, Jace. Yet now here you are with accusations?"
The nightstalkers' little game of tease-the-squirrel suddenly took an unexpected turn.


The undisputed master of the mountains of Shiv.
All the wonders of the natural world in one breathtaking microcosm.
If you find yourself and a friend being chased by a King Cheetah, you have but one chance: Trip your friend.
—Suq'Ata wisdom

"Everybody but me—CHARGE!"
You're on your way home when you spot the gates of a strange city . . . one that isn't on the map and wasn't here when you traveled this path four days ago.

"Prayers will curdle on the tongue and be heard by rotting ears."
—Minaldra, the Vizag Atum


"I'd like to say that it's our pet, but the reverse may be closer to the truth."
—Ixor, initiate of Rhet crop
Travelers' tales claim that hydras bite off their own heads to make themselves deadlier.





It's easy to believe the monster is a myth—until you feel three hundred thousand pounds of myth crashing down on your ship.

"We encountered the sentinels in the wastes, near no living thing. Their purpose was inscrutable."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry


"I'll grant that the siege engines are gone, but do you think that might have been a bit of overkill?"
@-Sergeant Malsworth
"One does not question the size or shape of the grains of sand in an hourglass. Nor do I question the temperament of the souls under my guidance."




Even the most battle-hardened soldiers pause in her presence for a moment of introspection.

"Here lies Gond, hero of Safehold Taldwen. May he ever guide our quest."
"Everything serves a purpose. Even you."
—Vorel of the Hull Clade
Only a fool ignores a letter bearing the official mark of a patriar family.

The runes seem to come alive as it moves, rippling like slow flames across its scales.
Rather than sheltering her young, the female fungusaur often injures her own offspring, thereby ensuring their rapid growth.

"If you're not surrounded by decadence, my question to you is—why not?"
"Healing is more art than magic. Well, there is still quite a bit of magic."


Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.

Enter the Senate, the seat of justice and the foundation of Ravnican society.

"Knowledge demands sacrifice."
—Tojira, swamp queen
"Something's causing electrospheric disruption in the blazekite's spire-vanes. Find the cause, and tell them to keep it up!"
—Juzba, Izzet tinker
"After the people flee, but before the enemy arrives—that's grabbin' time."
Most warriors think in only two dimensions. Agnate and his metathran brethren were trained to battle in three.


"The bones of the past will tell their tales—if you know how to speak their language."
—Savra
An eyeblink later, all that remained of the tree-beast was the breeze of its momentum.
"I am the romancer, the passion that consumes the flesh."
—Seal inscription

The food chain doesn't end at sandwurms.




"I came seeking a challenge. All I found was you."
—Zurgo, khan of the Mardu
The living fear Nethroi's whispers. The dead heed them.

The power of the wild, concentrated in a single charge.
For some customers, the old apothecary shop still opens its doors.
To become king of the Goblins, one must assassinate the previous king. Thus, only the most foolish seek positions of leadership.
"They shall drink sorrow's dregs. They shall kill those whom once they loved."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
Where treachery and oblivion converge.

"As the portal closed, Filth oozed through. The stench of evil followed it in."
—*Scroll of Beginnings*



Merfolk raided the shores untroubled for years . . . until the shores started fighting back.


"We must all make sacrifices for the good of Innistrad."
—Sorin Markov
Flavorful aromas beckon many a salivating maw.

The goblins made an unruly pile with military precision.
Only an imitation of tortured shrieking
—or so the Rakdos claim.
It left behind an echoing emptiness more horrible than the grave.
"Mana lurks in all things, even in the depths of one's own heart."


The sculptor, like most artists, put his heart and soul in his work. But the newly awakened golem decided he wanted his creator's other, more tangible parts.

"Where metal is tainted and wood is scarce, we are best armed by faith."
—Tavalus, acolyte of Korlis





Victories against the hive are tragedies.
Urza eventually came to understand Tocasia's lessons on clarity of purpose. Perfection became his goal, and all other matters fell away in its pursuit.
The thrulls bred at a terrifying pace. In the end, they overwhelmed the Order of the Ebon Hand.
The Tattermunge gang has no words for the spell that whips their instinctual rage into a frenzy. They only know they like it.

Some convictions are so strong that the world must break to accommodate them.


"If you need to disappear for a while, I know a place."
—Bilivus, master archivist
"The greatest honor is to feed Atarka."
Since it eats only carrion, sometimes it needs to make some from scratch.
Some corpses the Golgari cannot claim. Some souls the Orzhov cannot shackle.

"Loyalty to coin alone is loyalty nonetheless."
—General Varchild


"You want to know your enemy? Look at your feet while you trample him."
—Tahngarth of the Weatherlight




The more the scarier.

It promises protection to those in need and proclaims a warning to any who would threaten Ravnican law.
"Take a quiet moment to reflect on your sins."
—Cleph, Order of Redeemed Souls


The grave robbers were startled, for the door to the mausoleum was already open.
"There is no secret that cannot be sold."
"All dauthi are jackals, regardless of breed."
—Lyna, soltari emissary

"Ever try to count hyperactive schoolchildren while someone shouts random numbers in your ear? It's like that."
—Geetra, frustrated mage

Misery loves company.

"That which knows itself cannot be shaped to another's will."
—Oracle *en*-Vec








"Watch the voltage. We don't need another charred, crashing viashino."
—Bori Andon, Izzet blastseeker






The paradise of Amrou Haven had become a field of cinders. Its people struggled to survive, hoping to see visions of its past in the strange storms that quickly passed.


"I trained with the Ghitu, and I respect the fire as they do."



Awake and awing in the blink of an eye.
No matter where you find them, goblins love rocks.

"I admire it. Few pull off pluck and subservience at the same time."
—Ezuri, renegade leader
Fear the mists, for they are armed.
"Pleasure doing business with you."

More disturbing than the unknown is a distortion of the familiar.

A circus acrobat in life, she kills with such fluid grace that even her victims are awed by her performance.


"Your life will set with the sun."

The battle served as a grim reminder of what a final victory for the Eldrazi would mean.

Next to her designs, life seems like a pale imitation.


A seething locus of reverent rage.
The most terrifying thing about the Craw Wurm is probably the horrible crashing sound it makes as it speeds through the forest. This noise is so loud it echoes through the trees and seems to come from all directions at once.






"These fiends are slightly less tolerable than you."
"A sentiment that warms my heart, sister."
Decades to build. Hours to demolish.


"Hope shall be the blade that severs our bonds."
"Release chaos with me!"
The toymaker frowned in bewilderment. None of his creations had ever sneezed before.

"The tempest is the only ally I need."
Centuries ago, a mad god offered a simple trade.




"This party is such fun—but it's a shame to mourn just one."
—Irini Sengir
The thrulls bred at a terrifying pace. In the end, they overwhelmed the Order of the Ebon Hand.
Fire Elementals are ruthless infernos, annihilating and consuming their foes in a frenzied holocaust. Crackling and blazing, they sear swift, terrible paths, leaving the land charred and scorched in their wake.



When defeat is near and guidance is scarce, all eyes look in one direction.

Designed by Stone Librande
Recruits aren't always volunteers.


The wizard consulted the Riptide Project about how to further his research. He wasn't prepared for what they told him.


As Terisia City burned, Feldon pressed the sylex into Loran's hands and urged her to run. Hope ran with her.
Liliana whispered to whatever consciousness Oketra and Bontu had left. "You are the gods. He is the usurper. You know what to do."




Assault and battery included.
"The so-called Barbarians will not respect us for our military might—they will respect us for our honor."
—Lucilde Fiksdotter, Leader of the Order of the White Shield
"Weep not for me. I will rise with the spring's new growth."
"Your swords and wards have no power here."

"May all the cairns of Jund be toppled."
—Meren of Clan Nel Toth
"Isolation is not the answer."
—Urza, to Teferi




"Of twenty yeer of age he was, I gesse.
Of his stature he was of even lengthe,
And wonderly deliver, and greete of strengthe."
—Geoffrey Chaucer, *The Canterbury Tales*
Those who displease Oona soon learn the extent of the armies she commands.
Urza's metathran children were conceived, birthed, and nurtured by an integrated system of machines.
Greenweaver Mina and her twin brother Denn lead the last of the Mul Daya into an uncertain future.
"The wilds are a garden tended by divine hands."





Most inhabitants of Zendikar have given up on the idea of an accurate map.



The continent of Bala Ged was ravaged by massive Eldrazi of Ulamog's lineage, its lush jungles and cascading rivers reduced to dust.
"Stop trying to pierce the hide. Hit where it's softest: ankle, sole, hamstring."
—Master Hunter Chevill
The sky rang with the cries of armored seraphs, and the darkness made a tactical retreat.

"And the unclean spirits went out, and entered the swine: and the herd ran violently . . . ."
—*The Bible*, Mark 5:13





"A beauty made more so by its fleeting visitations."
—Teferi
"Ajani goes where he is needed most and in his name we keep his lands safe."




"Let weak feed on weak, that we may divine the nature of strength."
—*Phyrexian Scriptures*
"Why do guards always look surprised when we bash them?" asked Ruric. "I think they expect a bribe," said Thar.

"Such a lord as this-all virtues' height-Had never been, nor ever was again."



"They shall give us all they have as penance for their resistance. Their ships. Their goods. Their rebellious blood."
"What's natural on Ikoria continues to delight me."
—Vivien Reid
Before he was subjugated by demonic forces, Dakkon was a master smith of unrivaled artistry.
They are drawn by the brilliant blue glint of the mineral lazotep from the mines below.
Those who worship the great gargantuans could hardly be expected to fight with a subtle weapon.
"As the traitor hurried across the courtyard, its eyes snapped open. It was time to pay the queen a visit."
—*Beyond the Great Henge*
Kill a gnarlid with your first blow, or it'll cheerfully show you how it's done.
"Plans evolved within the tent decide a victory 1,000 *li* away."
"Who built such a wonder?"
"It took many hands."
What the Golgari can't claim through patient undercity expansion, they seize in brazen topside sorties.

"My, what a pretty little trick. At least you'll die with style."



The suns of Mirrodin have shone upon perfection only once.


"Don't envy the grandeur of drakes. Their impression of grace fades when the first gust sends them crashing into one another."
—Molimo, maro-sorcerer

In nature, not a single bone or scrap of flesh goes to waste.
Even within the chapel's hallowed halls, the devils' laughter pierced his prayers.

Suddenly he realized that everything was connected by invisible strings, strings that could be pulled—or cut.
"You could say it was my pet project."
—Jhoira
"Does this make me look fat?"

In Urborg, few things are less permanent than death.


"Why fight the body when you can dominate the mind that rules it?"
—Jace Beleren

"Angels and inquisitors terrorize villages, but no one seems to notice the stirring out at sea."
"What we knew as Emeria, Ula, and Cosi were not divine beings at all, but a cruel trick, and a grave error."
—*The Invokers' Tales*
"You are beneath contempt. Your lineage will be forgotten."
Without a mind, it doesn't fear death. Without a soul, it doesn't mind killing.
Structures built from darksteel yield to neither assault nor age.
"Our ancestors adapted to this world of metal. Just as they did, we will adapt to this world of evil."

"They may show up with the wrong thigh bone or mandible, but they always show up."
—Zul Ashur, lich lord

So thick was the fog on Argoth's shores that the brothers' forces passed within shouting distance of each other without realizing it.
The first morning after acquiring her familiar, the wizard awoke with fleabites and mange.


A blazing light to drive out the shadows.

The maze-like design embodies the core of Azorius law—strict structure designed to test wills and stall change.

Little agonies pave the way to greater power.
Sometimes it's ostentatious to go unseen.





"Twisted magic, twisted fate, Force the land to ooze with hate."
—Cabal chant


"One pain is lessened by another's anguish."
—William Shakespeare, *Romeo and Juliet*
"That performance was truly the pits."
—Jetmir

Death has bound it with chains of past regrets. Forever it searches for atonement, each kindness removing a single link.
Starfish are its favorite prey.
The student searches the world for meaning. The master finds worlds of meaning in the search.


"Whatever you're looking for—food, family, Halo—we've got the best in town."

Some say the knowledge lost during the Ritual of Rebuking is returned through the well's waters.

"Let them send their legions! I will show them that my truth is stronger than their swords."
—General Varchild

The best traprunners know exactly where to step. The others . . . do their best.
The door to her home survived the fires of the Malignus. Now it's her greatest weapon.





Murky Otarian tides hide the forgotten treacheries of the Phyrexian war.
The Caterans call it a screening process. The dead are in no condition to argue.
"Conquering your first world is the hardest, after all. My power grew as I moved from world to world, taking anything that would make the next taking easier."
—Ob Nixilis
"Hold on to your lunch!"
—Bartleby, gnome wizard
"Mold could catch you."
—Suq'Ata insult


"Your words are meaningless. The rustling of leaves is the only language that makes any sense."

Not all minds touched by the Eldrazi turn to raging psychosis. Some simply withdraw from this world into memories of a better one.
"All matter, animate or not, rots when exposed to time. We merely speed up the process."
—Ezoc, Golgari rot farmer





Not all heroes carry swords.



Early testing failed because the clones were all thumbs.
"If you weren't born with it, you don't need it."
—Grahilah, former trader of Amiqat
In a culture of beauty, the most beautiful are worshipped as gods.


You don't want to know how she got that name.




"Arise. You have been anointed by the light. Go forth and fight without fear, for you shall be victorious."
It's good to know more about your enemy's fate than your enemy does.

What is the sound of one head snapping?
The Wall of Bone is said to be an aspect of the Great Wall in Hel, where the bones of all sinners wait for Ragnarok, when Hela will call them forth for the final battle.

"Join me, and take the world for yourself!"


Because the dead have no will to resist.
Whether modeled after bear, bird, or baloth, all claws send the same message.


"Today's the last day you'll fear sewer crocs, Garg. From now on, the sewer crocs will fear you."
Not everyone can have a sword of blessed silver. Not everyone needs one, either.
"Dawn-kissed, he nourishes the golden grain."
—Psemilla, Meletian poet






"The sands obscure the vision of others, but clarify ours."
—Faiso, Dromoka commander
Kongming's first campaign against the Wei kingdom was a rousing success until an arrogant Shu general, Ma Su, foolishly lost the city of Jieting.




Battle doesn't need a purpose; the battle is its own purpose. You don't ask why a plague spreads or a field burns. Don't ask why I fight.

As long as one drop of the oil exists, the joyous work continues.


The elves of Wilt-Leaf Wood continually expand the palisade surrounding the sanctuary. They hope to one day enclose the entire forest within its walls.

A pair of domesticated griffins escaped from captivity a century ago. Now the skies are filled with the songs of their descendants.



The words from which language sprang, the knowledge from which thought was born, the story from which history was woven.
"Gather round and tell me all from the courts and castles."

"I've heard enough."
"Get up. You're not finished yet."
—Liliana Vess
"He displays a perverse charisma fueled by avarice. Highly dangerous. Recommend civil sanctions."
—Agmand Sarv, Azorius hussar


"Folks 'round here are too in love with their contraptions. Does them some good if we smash one every so often."
Kruphix hid the most dire prophecies about humankind where humans would never find them and tritons wouldn't care to read them.
"You'll need all your strength for the trials to come."

"There's never been a dwarven smith who could match the marvels that Gaea herself forges."
—Elvish champion
These spirits of the air are winsome and wild, and cannot be truly contained. Only marginally intelligent, they often substitute whimsy for strategy, delighting in mischief and mayhem.
Dragons of Silumgar's brood begin to digest their prey even before consuming it, letting their caustic breath do much of the work.


For the Phyrexians, death is not an end, nor a one-time occurrence.


"This little critter can turn all of you to scrap in under thirty seconds! Come on, who wants to be the first to go? Try and stop me!"

"In the game of conquest, who cares about the pawns if the king yet reigns?"
—Geth, keeper of the Vault
To maintain its hide, it consumes a variety of rocks—not to mention a variety of Phyrexians.



Two little goblins, out in the sun. Down came a griffin, and then there was one.
Sometimes it's best to let sleeping dragons lie.

"Your arrogance amazes me, Kaervek. Did you not know the price you would pay?"
—Mangara

"As long as there is a single shred of life, there is hope."
—Nissa Revane
Which is worse—the sleep which never ends or that which never comes?
"This is how wars are won—not with armies of soldiers but with a single knife blade, artfully placed."
—Yurin, royal assassin
"You've found this place only because you were summoned. Pray you're worthy of the invitation."
—Etrata
"When angels fall, humans must rise."

"The sky is like another sea. It teems with currents, life, and endless possibility."
"Yes, Boros tactics are unparalleled. But when your comrades are dying around you, inner strength must carry the day."
—Gideon Jura, to Aurelia
"If you live on a giant's back, there's only one individual you'll ever need to fear."
—Gaddock Teeg
Unable to touch items of value, he goes forth to steal secrets instead.




"Every spell has the potential to be worthless."
—Ertai, wizard adept

A searing light that spares only the chosen.





The goblet was a gift from the sphinx Gorael, who hoped humans and vedalken would eventually destroy each other to acquire it, leaving all of Esper to her own kind.




"Honor your steed and it will carry you to great deeds—and bring you home to tell of them."
Three heads are better than one.
"My mother once told me angels sing their swords' names with each strike."
—Sisay, Captain of the *Weatherlight*
On the continent of Tazeem, rushing waters plunge through narrow canyons into mist-cloaked lakes.
"From a tiny sprout, the greatest trees grow and flourish. May the seeds of your mind be equally fruitful."
"If you climb Skyfang Peak, avoid the pass. Generations of apes made that trail, and they don't tolerate trespassers."
—Sachir, Akoum Expeditionary House

"If it returns years hence, our knowledge of how to combat it will be that much greater."
—Andorel, Tolarian sentinel


The priests plead for your anguish and pray for your despair.
"You've not seen a storm until you've seen the kind that roars between worlds."
—Lyna, Soltari emissary
"Life has no mistakes, only experiments."
—Yolov, Simic bioengineer







"The Uktabi efreet and I have something in common: both of our mothers wanted to give us back."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight*

On expeditions through Ashmouth, the hunters of Devilthorn Lodge rely on the cleverness of foxes to counteract the mischief of devils.





"Boat's burning! Row faster!"
The safewright Talara protects a delicate woodland waterfall. She has vowed to send wave after wave of warriors to slay any who would dare disturb its beauty.





"The only action worth taking is one with an unknown outcome."
To soar as high as hope, to dive as swift as justice.


Its victims become mindless lunatics. Conveniently, that's the first step in joining the Cult of Rakdos.
"Taste my horns!"
—Tahngarth of the *Weatherlight*
The scepter of power is fragile in a calloused hand.
—Cho-Arrim saying
"More than snow falls from the Boreal skies."
—Arkin Egilsson, skycaptain
"You should try to clear your mind of idle thoughts. And if you can't, I will."




For the Simic Combine, its sigil serves not as an emblem of honor but as a trademark. Its familiar image on any biological commodity attests to superb craftsmanship, ingenious innovation, and higher cost.






"What use is a stake or holy symbol in the hands of a coward?"

The dead are lonely in the crypt and always eager for company.
"My grandmother saved the life of a brass dragon, and in return she was given a glimpse of the fire in its heart—a glimpse she passed down to me."
"It's important to always have the right tool for the job. This one is for picking my teeth."


Every inch of a sliver's body is a potential claw, appendage, or projectile.
Centuries ago, a pyromancer's spark ignited a fiery conflagration.

"Loss has no meaning here. You cannot take from those who have nothing."
In a wave of spells called the Cursemute, Avacyn cleansed the world with divine fire.
They'll attack whatever's in front of them—as long as you tell them where that is.

"Play no favorites. Everybody dies."
—Sparkmage saying


Chains of leaping fire and sizzling lightning laid waste the artificers' handiwork, sparing not a single device.
Foolishly, Najib retreated to his castle at El-Abar; the next morning he was dead. In just one night, the dwarven forces had reduced the mighty walls to mere rubble.


The storm wasn't an omen. It was the fulfillment of one.
"A basilisk's gaze is effective, but disposing of physical remains is a tiresome task. It's far more discreet to dissolve one's victim entirely."
—Szadek










"Send them a message they can't ignore."
—Satoru Umezawa
"No matter how strong, an unarmed fighter is no more than a fool."

It was a family reunion to die for.
"'Carol, blast those aliens.' 'Carol, transport these concessions.' No one cares that today is my birthday."

"Anybody want some . . . *toast*?"
—Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
"The sky teems with just as much life as the forest or the deep seas."
—Hadi Kasten, Calla Dale naturalist



Beauty is in the eye of the exploder.
Anurids have the problem of airborne invaders licked.



"There's never a good time for a disaster or an attack. That's why we're here."
—Oren, militia captain
Nothing breaks the monotony like a good old-fashioned riot.

The fifth cartouche is the final affirmation of glory, granted only to the worthy dead.


"High on a throne of royal state . . . insatiate to pursue vain war with heav'n." —John Milton, *Paradise Lost*

"What a pity. You should have written it down."
—Liliana Vess

"Creatures fade in and out of existence. It's an unfortunate side effect. The losses are tolerable."
—Belbe

"You are bold, challenger, but flammable."

Supplicants offer flesh and silver, flowers and blood. The altar takes what it will, eyes gleaming with unspoken promises.
"All the coins in Ravnica can't save his soul now."
—Narbulg Nine Fingers
Alone in the charred desolation of her kingdom, she regretted many things—most of all not acting sooner.
"I swore a sacred oath to protect the weak and punish those who threaten them. As long as I draw breath, I will protect you."

Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti Djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.
If everything in the Gurmag Swamp hungers for human flesh, what bait could be more effective?
"Boggarts are easy to get around. Just toss some mutton in another direction. Giants are a little harder. You have to be quick to avoid their steps. Cinders are the difficult ones, but even they have fears to be exploited."



Druids converted swaths of the Tangle into tanglebloom orchards. Though heavy tools are needed to cut a leaf in the Tangle, tanglebloom fruit is easily plucked by hand.
Rigorous faith and belief are rewarded on occasion, and richly so.





"That our enemies are great only brings us greater hope."
Size of a pixie, rage of a hellkite.

"Once great literature—now great litter."
—Jaya Ballard, task mage

"A boon from the angels should never be cast aside."
—Manfried Ulmach, Chief Inquisitor
"Fire is the test of gold; adversity, of strong men."
—Seneca, "On Providence," trans. Basore

What is the sound of one head snapping?
"The time for subtlety is over, darling."
"War glides on the simplest updrafts while peace struggles against hurricane winds. It is the way of the world. It must change."
If you stare at the sun for too long, you'll lose your ability to see clearly.


"Why perch in the crow's nest when I can fly like the crows?"


He bids his minions rise from their graves to their knees.










Wordlessly it leads its abhorrent brood.
Rakshasa waste no opportunity to display their wealth and power, even in the midst of a sorcerous duel.








"The land grows only where the kami will it."
—Dosan the Falling Leaf
"A stunning example of the breed! Flawless plating, ruthlessly efficient death stroke, and an excellent drool shimmer."
One aurochs may feed a village, but a herd will flatten it.
"In my youth, we used to best each other at hopping rabbit-fast between the lava spouts, the burning tar spattering our legs."
—Iskene, Kannah storyteller
The less you have, the harder you fight for it.
"I did not choose my role, Orim," said Cho-Manno patiently, "and I suspect Gerrard did not choose his."

"Rashmi's design was just the beginning. We are most eager to see what the High Consul has planned for it."
—Consulate engineer's log
"Dong Zhuo's man, Lu Bu, warrior without peer, / Far surpassed the champions of his sphere."
Leonos had no second thoughts about the abolishment edict. He'd left skyrunes warning of the eviction, even though it was cloudy.






"Industry without artistry is just a fancy way to fill the junkyard."


Beauty is a seed, waiting to blossom under her capable hands.

"This city could certainly use a bit more divine intervention."
—Inspector Jillard
His roots reach deep and grip hard.
The most popular pit fighters are brought back for encore performances.
"Our love is like the river in the summer season of long rains. / For a little while it spilled its banks, flooding the crops in the fields."
—"Love Song of Night and Day"
"Finally, a weapon the Boros can't confiscate!"
—Juri, proprietor of the Juri Revue


"In these halls there is no pass or fail. Your true test comes with the first full moon."


Most griffins must be caught and broken into the service of the polis. Not so in Setessa, where they volunteer.
"Those blessed hands could bring surcease to even the most tainted soul."
—Sister Betje, *Miracles of the Saints*
"The Gruul embrace all things poisonous and living in the cracks of society."
—Teysa Karlov

"My ship . . . ," Sisay mumbled. "Intact," Gerrard reassured her, "which is more than I can say for you, my friend." Sisay laughed despite the pain.



The arrows of the elvish elite strike as true and deadly as the fangs of the Cosmos Serpent they revere.

"I sang songs of sorrow for my lost love. Imagine my horror when, one night, they were answered."
—Milana, Orzhov prelate

In abandoned corners of Ravnica, nature has begun to reclaim what it once owned.

Lightning burns its own path.
"Before you can open your third eye, you must prove you can open the first two."
Earth elementals have the eternal strength of stone and the endurance of mountains. Primordially connected to the land they inhabit, they take a long-term view of things, scorning the impetuous haste of short-lived mortal creatures.
"Animals commune with their environment without the need for language. Theirs is a fundamental connection that surpasses flimsy words."
—Vivien Reid


He vowed he would never rest until he reached his destination. He doesn't know how right he was.
"The people of Aysen feed us, and we don't kill them. That's my kind of truce."
—Eron the Relentless

"The lasting effects are invariably fatal."
—Phyrexian progress notes
"It is not a choice I make, to have this guard. It is the choice of my people, and my duty to them."
—Oracle *en*-Vec






Some fishers like to eat eels, and some eels like to eat fishers.
Many combatants at Valor's Reach wield glowing weapons to distract their enemies and delight the crowd.




"You've let yourself grow old, and your light is dimming. Shall we talk one last time, or must I slay you now?"
—Mishra, to Urza
"Only a mind unfettered with the concerns of the flesh can see the world as it truly is."
"There's a hole in your plan."
—Noyan Dar, Tazeem lullmage



"It could be worse," said Gerrard, looking around. "Well, maybe not."
Phenax is generous with gifts and unforgiving of debts.


"You never know what day might be your last."
Light poured from every crack as the sleepers awoke from their long stone slumber.
"Her voice is wilderness, savage and pure."
—Kamahl, druid acolyte
"Even storm clouds bow to worship Avacyn."
—Elder Rimheit
Although officials said it was a sewer failure, the people whispered that it was a warning of night's reach.
A full coffin is like a full coffer—both are attractive to thieves.

Frequent, violent storms shape the Nephalia coastline, sculpting cliffs and caves where monsters often lurk.
"Her hunger knows no limit. Left unchecked, she would feast on all of Tarkir."
—Yasova Dragonclaw
"It's time for the 'Smash, Smash' song!"




Who harnesses fire controls the world.
—Ghitu proverb
"Sacrilege! A noble ally in life, made nothing more than a glorified kite in death!"
—Arna Kennerüd, Skycaptain

The first spell taught to young mages, it has spared the lives of many whose hands are too small to hold a sword.
"In Rath," the priest said, "there is even greater need for prayer."
"For centuries my creation kept this world in balance. Now only her shadow remains."
—Sorin Markov

Together the soldiers were like a golden blade, cutting down their enemies and scarring the darkness.
Tawnos learned quickly from Urza that utter simplicity often led to wondrous, yet subtle utility.

The Wanderer walks many paths. Her blade travels only one.
When the night blossoms open, the wings of Eiganjo take flight.


"It was just a trick of the light," Dalis muttered to himself. "I've been patrolling alone too long. Got to stop jumping at shadows."


Partners in love, partners in life, and partners in crime.
By the time the spider comes to slurp up its dinner, its victims have been partially dissolved by acidic silk.




Saved from destruction by one planeswalker's sacrifice, the Eliterate colony forswore the taking of life.
"I order you to volunteer."
The continent of Guul Draz is a geothermal swampland reeking of heat and decay.


When asked how many paths reach enlightenment, the monk kicked a heap of sand. "Count," he smiled, "and then find more grains."
"It was as if we fought a shadow."
—Onean soldier
"The Knowledge Pool has all the answers—especially 'No.'"

"You aren't invited."
As Trostani's influence grew, vitality spread through the Conclave—much to the other guilds' dismay.
"War or no war, your donations are due, as always."


The rhythm isn't a call to arms, but a signal that the goblins have made a new enemy.


It nurtures its masters' glorious future.

The nightsong begins with a lone howl, but soon swells to a deafening chorus.
"Barrin taught me that the hardest lessons to grasp are the ones you've already learned."
—Ertai, wizard adept
No fear. No sense. And soon, no lunch.


Anarchy comes in many forms: social, individual, Gruul . . .

"We all want to know what's going on in someone else's head. I simply open it up and look."



One part cunning, one part wise, and many, many parts demented.
When it finishes the harvest, you'll have nowhere to hide.


When Asha left Bant, she ensured that the world would have protection and order in her absence.
It feeds on dry bones in the sand and desperate pleas in the wind.


"Good ideas don't take time. They take a lot of bad ideas first."
—Ral Zarek
"Rich" is a relative term.

For the Simic Combine, its sigil serves not as an emblem of honor but as a trademark. Its familiar image on any biological commodity attests to superb craftsmanship, ingenious innovation, and higher cost.
"You didn't say the Magic word."
Even the clouds bend themselves to Memnarch's will, eager to swallow those who oppose him.
"Her voice is justice, clear and relentless."
—Akroma, angelic avenger
"The sky hedrons are covered with tern nests. It's as though the birds have given up on the land altogether."
—Ilori, merfolk falconer
"Two magi could trade spells all day and never crown a victor. The real battle is not one of power but of will. If your confidence breaks, so too shall you."
—Venser
The juiciest prey is that which grows lazy, thinking itself beyond the reach of danger.


"There's something peculiar about the cats today."
—Janoc, Tin Street tinker
Time passes, time crawls; Time doesn't move at all.
In the Jamuraan jungles, there is often no separating beauty from danger.
The goblins laughed as the elf ran away, until more came back.

"No life is without meaning. No living thing is too small to be strong."

"It appears that nature has risen against us."
—Captain Brinely Rage

"Ajani goes where he is needed most and in his name we keep his lands safe."
Light streaked down from the heavens, and a voice whispered in the soldier's ear: "You shall not fall today."

To most, a terrifying apparition. To a necro-alchemist, a potent fuel source.
It's the only water source in miles of desert, but the local tribes avoid it at all costs.

The Mirran elders vanished with Memnarch, leaving behind a generation of wayward orphans.
There is no height above Grixis that is free from the stench of death.
"You sought to anger me, Nahiri. Soon you will see how well you have succeeded."
To merfolk, pirates are a nuisance. To pirates, merfolk are a threat. To the kraken, they're both appetizers.
They say the Zombie Master controlled these foul creatures even before his own death, but now that he is one of them, nothing can make them betray him.




"Tie a mouse under a bridge, and your cabbages will triple in size."
—Kithkin superstition

When your enemies are denied soldiers, they are denied victory.
















Every culture has its unlucky numbers. In a city where you're either alone, in a crowd, or being stabbed in the back, two is the worst number of all.
"As my father taught, 'Training will raise your shield to the blow, but courage fills the gaps the shield leaves open.'"





Xorns are native to the Elemental Plane of Earth, where gems and rare stones are plentiful. When summoned elsewhere they can be quite destructive in search of food.


"The blood of your ancestors ran heavy on this soil. Now it's your turn to sacrifice for the glory of Shiv."
—Viashino heretic


Some say magic was first practiced by women, who have always felt strong ties to the land.


"Every thought is a string. You just have to find the right ones to pull."
"The blood of Kiyomaro flows in my veins. He did not let Eiganjo fall and neither shall I."
Her sword sings more beautifully than any choir.
Each victory adds a new verse.


"Rage is a dangerous weapon. Your enemies will try to use your anger against you. Use it against them first."
—Ajani Goldmane



Late payment shall be extracted however they see fit.

"Priests, hunters, slayers—to arms! The enemy approaches!"





"I take no pleasure in your suffering, but it is necessary. Once you accept your fate you'll find eternity more tolerable."
Waste follows want.

"At first we thought we were in some haunted wood. Then the branches twisted and scuttled toward us."
—Merrik Aidar, Benalish patrol
"When riding Erebo's Whip, remember to keep your arms, legs, and any strange flailing appendages inside the vehicle at all times."



When killing five just isn't enough.

By the time Mishra was defeated, no mage was foolish enough to rely heavily on walls.



"The thunder of hooves is music to my ears."
"This one was wearing shoes made of glass. She'll be no ordinary prey."



"Your death will take a mere moment, but it will feel like an eternity."
—Vilis, Broker of Blood
"You harbor such vast potential. It would be such a shame to let you die of old age."
—Zul Ashur, lich lord
To the Sultai, Ugin's power was just one more resource to be exploited.
「十分な力で対戦相手の呪文を打ち砕けば、それで自信も打ち砕けるでしょう。」
—-障害の秘本、傍注

The line between dream and death is gauzy and fragile. She leads those too near it from one side to the other.
"Great books are meant to be read, then read again backwards or upside down!"
—Ettovard, Tolarian archivist

Ravnica's defenders watched in horror as Oketra's shot pierced the body of the pegasus. Gideon tumbled through the air, Blackblade in hand.
It possesses no intelligence, only counter-intelligence.
Dragons make for spiteful gods.



Most spiders wait patiently for their prey to arrive. Most spiders aren't forty feet tall.


A pegasus chooses its rider, bearing the worthy into the clouds and tossing all others to the ground.
Gideon and Nissa carved a path through the Eldrazi swarm, and their Zendikari allies charged into the fray behind them.
"Children of the Ruins, raised to be warriors, know that life begins when another speaks their names."
—Soltari *Tales of Life*

Two different visions of freedom clashed at the gates of the Imperial Palace.

"The Erstwhile—rotten of body and outmoded in dress, but unfailing in loyalty."
—Vraska

Its laughter drives needles through your mind.
"Places, everyone!"
—Judith
The knights see a mighty quarry. The dragon sees breakfast, lunch, and dinner.


Its beak rends flesh and bone, exposing the tender marrow of dream.
When a cacophodon is angry, the whole jungle knows.
Suddenly, Zurdi didn't care about treasure, glory, food . . . or the drakes circling above.
"Why simply sit back and applaud the good ideas of others when I can improve upon them?"
—Elminster
Jund is a world as cruel as those who call it home. Their brutal struggles scar the land even as it carves them in its image, a vicious circle spiraling out of control.
"We suffer uneasy ground, unstable alliances, and unpredictable magic. Something you can truly trust is worth more than a chest of gold."
—Nikou, Joraga bard



As you pause mid-climb to catch your breath, you'd swear you can hear a heartbeat pulsing deep within the mountain.
Hidden within the clicking, chittering swarm is a unique mind, still young, but growing more aware as time passes.
The erupting flames work as both barrier and weapon.
"Passions can't be shackled by laws or mastered with logic. The choice is freedom or death."
—*Volume IV, The Book of Fire*

Follow the light. In its absence, follow her.

"I adore your outfit. It's so . . . rustic."


The Aurora had transformed her into a relentless force of destruction.
His verdict is always guilty. His sentence is always death.

Those who bring nothing to the temple take nothing away.
"The best answers solve more than one riddle."
—Kefnet, god of knowledge
"The visions haunt me. I see the end of the world, brought on by the search for the Immortal Sun."
—Shaper Pashona



Penniless and far from home, many former Yellow Scarves and other soldiers became bandits to survive.

"Bathed in hallowed light, the infidels looked upon the impurities of their souls and despaired."
—The Book of Tal


"Your downfall was not your ignorance, your weakness, or your hubris, but your warm blood."
—Heidar, Rimewind master



In the absence of life, something yet grows.

"I embrace all of Alara, Grixis as much as Bant. Let my former home call me traitor. I do this not for accolades, but because it is right."
"Only the weak imprison themselves behind walls. We live free under the wind, and our freedom makes us strong."
—Zurgo, khan of the Mardu
"Shame we'll never see what all the fuss was about."


Before a woman marries in the village of Sursi, she must visit the land of the Mesa Pegasus. Legend has it that if the woman is pure of heart and her love is true, a Mesa Pegasus will appear, blessing her family with long life and good fortune.

It loves having family for dinner.

「時間術士は、刹那に生きるということに関して特殊な定義を持っています。」
—-千年秘本

"They'll never see me coming."

Legend speaks of the Sun Spear, the mighty weapon that can strike any point in Theros, even the depths of the Underworld.
"When the air burns, only death breathes deep."
—Bogardan mage
"Etherium is limited. Innovation is not."
—Tezzeret

"Peace will come only when we have taken Varchild's head."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
There are no soloists in the chorus of Selesnya.



"Heat of battle" is usually a metaphor.
History has buried its treasures deep.
What is a tree? Slow hard thought. What is a flower? Swift soft flesh. What is a druid? Both.



"Allow me a moment to catch your breath."
Giants share nothing but their fury.

They fell screaming into the depths of the chasm like so many pebbles tossed down a well.




Few warriors dare to challenge a knight of Capashen. Should one do so, there is one fewer.
Gruul territorial markings need not be legible. The blood, snot, and muck used to smear them are unmistakably Gruul.
Your pleas for death shall go unheard.

You don't so much hire goblins as put ideas in their heads.







With the right weapon, a fearsome beholder is nothing more than a big floating bullseye.


2021 Legacy Champion
"At least they remember me."
—Gerrard


To be king, Numsgil did in Blog, who did in Unkful, who did in Viddle, who did in Loll, who did in Alrok. . . .
An organized and methodical reproduction.



"The heroes of the past nourish our spirits by their example—and nourish our crops by their decay."
—Jeddeg, philosopher of graves
The elite cathars of the Parish-Blades train in all manner of techniques designed to delay and frustrate the beasts that hunt the crossways.


When you get into the swamp, the swamp gets into you.

Design leads to progress.


"Death is merely another foe the Mardu will overcome."

"Two legs by day, four legs by night, eyes raging in storm-gotten might."
—Ancient Northland riddle


The songs of angels are perceived not as words in the ears but as stirrings in the soul.





Despite the chaos of the Roil and the devastation of the Eldrazi, Zendikar is a world of breathtaking beauty.

Villagers employ watchdogs as guardians and companions. Druids prefer something a little bigger.
"Did you have a nice nap?"
—Liliana Vess
"Break it if you must. The loss of one relic is nothing next to the value of enriching us all."
—Suniel the Woodwise
The intricate dynamics of Rundvelt Goblin affairs are often confused with anarchy. The chaos, however, is the chaos of a thundercloud, and direction will sporadically and violently appear. Pashalik Mons and his raiders are the thunderhead that leads in the storm.

"I will not live as a slave. If you would be free, then fight alongside me."



An untroubled mind
Dwells in perfect harmony
With a peaceful heart.

It's hard to say for certain which end is more dangerous.
Karametra's worshippers know that one must plant countless seeds to ensure a bountiful harvest.


"I'll show you what you truly desire."
True power is achieved through blood and sweat. But mostly blood.
"O to be a dragon . . . of silkworm size or immense . . ." —Marianne Moore, "O to Be a Dragon"

In Lorwyn's brief evenings, the sun pauses at the horizon long enough for a certain species of violet to bloom with the fragrance of mischief.
As demons are drawn to suffering, angels are drawn to acts of benevolence.


The Eldrazi hunger without limit and consume without pause.
The wilds consume, but they also create.

"Sorry we shelled your village—here's some gold."




It grows to hate you.
"No, no, it's just a murder of crows, not an omen of murder . . . I think."
—York, Kessig tracker


No one in Aphetto answers a knock at the door after sundown.

"Romanticize it, glamorize it, call it what you will. To me, it will always be carnal, bloody murder."
—Ayli, Kamsa cleric
"Remember to discharge your locket every seven hours. Unless you prefer the spontaneous aether overload, of course."
—Daxiver, Izzet electromancer

Verick held his breath. Breathing wouldn't reveal his position, but it would force him to smell the goblins.
A light to bring hope in dark times.


"What wishes do they grant? Mostly pinching-related ones."
—Omik, superintendent of waterworks
A deafening roar arose as the fury of an enormous vertical river supplanted our serenity. Eddies turned into whirling geysers, leveling everything in their path.
As soon as she faces a monster, she begins composing its epitaph.


"Rich" is a relative term.
Devoured by the mists, Tolaria was stuck in time, trapped between two eternal heartbeats.

"Oh, I had a conscience once. But alas, I seem to have forgotten where I put it."
—Chandler
Simple wooden staff Made from life, protecting life, Stronger than cold steel.


As many attackers were dazzled by the wall's beauty as were halted by its force.
Their toast to good health went immediately, horribly awry.
The hierarchy of the Uktabi Jungle hinges mostly on who can keep Prince Kibo entertained.
"Fear not, child. Open your eyes and witness Keranos's truth!"
"I've been told my whole life that the great Ojutai holds all knowledge, but I wonder what our forebears knew."
—Narset


"Too little, too late. The machine is in motion."
—Tezzeret

"Picking locks is for beginners."
"Encase yourself in the most elaborate armor, and cower behind the heaviest shield. I would hate for you to feel helpless."
—Korig the Ruiner

Mirko Vosk hunted anyone with knowledge of the maze, draining the chances of the other guilds.
"Strike," the fumes hiss. "Raise an empire with your ambition."
"Only those who give the dragons the respect they deserve may bear our title."
The letter unfolded, inviting the twins to Strixhaven. Will saw a chance for arcane study. Rowan saw a chance for power.
Natives of Naya know better than to loiter near the mouth of a cave. Two glowing red eyes and the stench of foul breath are all the warning you're likely to get.
Syr Tasdale declared that he never wanted to see the witch Ygretta again. Her familiars quickly granted his request.

Tawnos won fame as Urza's greatest assistant. After he created these warriors, Urza ended his apprenticeship, promoting him directly to the rank of master.

The first mistake the Grimnant knights made was bullying the owner of an Urborg corpse shop. Their second mistake was dying.

They seek out living trees to glean age-old secrets from sap and wood.
"The fires of invention burn in all of us. I fight for the freedom to unleash those flames."
—Pia Nalaar
"We'll scale these cliffs, traverse Brittle Bridge, and then fight our way down the volcanic slopes on the other side."
"Isn't the shortest route through the canyon?"
"Yes."
"So shouldn't we—"
"No."

"Urza's machines have a splendid habit of excavating themselves."
—Rona, disciple of Gix

He controlled the zombies even before his own death; now nothing can make them betray him.

"Debt and death sound so similar, and thrulls are so hard of hearing. Mistakes are inevitable."
—Milana, Orzhov prelate


The hex swept through the village, its citizens falling one by one.
"The Founder Dragons brought the Blood Age to an end. It is an honor to serve them."




Where the Razor Fields beat back the Tangle, the crowded thicket yields to bright scimitars of grass.

They poured from the Skirk Ridge like lava, burning and devouring everything in their path.
The peace summit proved the grudge between Urza and Mishra could end only in blood.
Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.
Those who believed the city of Kroog would never fall to Mishra's forces severely underestimated the might of his war machines.
"A jigsaw puzzle that lives, breeds, and thinks."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator
"Victory is the greatest motivator of all. So sayeth the bey."

Shanna had heard Sisay's legend all her life. Now it was time to forge her own.


"I know these waters better than you know yourselves."


"And what, precisely, was so important that you left the entrance unguarded?"
—Fumika, Imperial enforcer

"A place like this makes me wonder if there's more to life than blood and treasure . . . Nah."
—Boyl Bucksalt, Storm Fleet swab
No thought is as succulent as a secret.

"Their fury is their greatest weapon."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, Elvish Hunter
"Feeding a normal army is a problem of logistics. With zombies, it is an asset. Feeding is why they fight. Feeding is why they are feared."
—Jadar, ghoulcaller of Nephalia



"My mount needs neither reins nor bridle. We both share a common purpose."
"Let's do it again!"
—Squee, goblin cabin hand






A tiny crack is enough to open the mind to Emrakul.




"I feel the vine-rhythm as my friends drive the beast to me. I will not miss my mark."



"A tiny flame is enough to dispel the night."
—Elspeth

What looked like a retreat was actually a replenishing.
"My motive is not vengeance but mercy. I deliver the soulless back to their severed souls."

The swamps go silent at its approach, but it still hears the heartbeat of the prey within.
"Wasted potential surrounds us. Lend me that bauble, and let me see what it can be made to be."

"Tomorrow wears yesterday's face."
—Kordel the Cryptic

The Chamber of the Guildpact has fallen silent, its bright promise broken.







"You're hurt? Too bad. You stop fighting when I say, and not a moment sooner."
—Satoru Umezawa
"This palace will be our fire-spit, and roasted prince our victory meal. Send in the torch-pigs!"
—Ghut Rak, Gruul guildmage


"If there is such a thing as too much power, I have not discovered it."
—Volrath
Confront it at your own peril, for it will confront you for its own amusement.
"While it is certainly a unique touch, Jan, does the mustache really need to be there?"
—High Artificer Andar Beech

Gruul clanfolk obey few rules, but all feel bound to answer the call of the horn.
"After the people flee, but before the enemy arrives—that's grabbin' time."



Night after night, Rosheen babbled about a bygone sunlit world, her every word dismissed as a madwoman's ravings.
After lightning struck the cliffs, the ore became iron, the iron became steel, and the steel became greaves. The lightning never left.

Mogglings have been known to play ball with hibernating slivers, completely unaware of their true nature.





"I like that Tezzeret. He has vision the other judges don't. He sees the potential in what we're making here."
—Faiz, inventor
Fire never dies alone.
The slith incubate in the Great Furnace's heat, emerging on Mirrodin's surface only when the four suns have aligned overhead.

There were no tombstones in orochi territory. Slain warriors were buried with a tree sapling, so they would become a part of the forest after death.

Only the elves know where the woods end and the woodworm begins.
"Salvation will not be granted by the Lunarch Council. It must be earned—at the edge of a sword, if necessary."

Moving without sound, swift figures pass through branches and undergrowth completely unhindered. One with the trees around them, the dryads of Shanodin Forest are seen only when they wish to be.
For vampires, blood carries more than life. Memories long eroded from the minds of bloodchiefs can be reclaimed from the veins of their sired kin.
The song of the forest is in perfect harmony. If a single note is out of place, the elves will find its source.



Jund is a world as cruel as those who call it home. Their brutal struggles scar the land even as it carves them in its image, a vicious circle spiraling out of control.
"This has nothing to do with what you know and everything to do with what I wish."
—Volrath
Whenever the Llanowar elves gather the fruits of their forest, they leave one plant of each type untouched, considering that nature's portion.

A cage may keep you in, but it does not keep the stones out.
His mind chose solitude, but his heart disagreed.

"The giants follow the flow of aether, and twice a year it leads them through here. Lesson learned. More clearance is needed."
—Sram, senior edificer

A common foe is the death of old hatreds.

"Molten earth has no anger of its own. Only by infusing it with your own rage can the magma seethe and take shape."
—Koth of the Hammer
Meant to cut through the body and burn straight to the soul.


"Tonight we'll eat a farewell feast. Cold corn porridge is not enough. / Let's peel papayas, pineapples, and mangoes, drink coconut milk, / and bake bananas."
—"Love Song of Night and Day"




A precious shell without, a delicious taste within.

"There is nothing you can do that I cannot simply deny."
—Ertai, wizard adept






"Comin' through!"



"Everything the wise woman learned she wrote in a book, and when the pages were black with ink, she took white ink and began again."
—Karn, silver golem


"We long ago abandoned the things that make humans weak: friendship, marriage, family. All that remains is the strength of our devotion."

"May your horns get lodged in an Eldrazi's bony face, ornery brute!"
—Bruse Tarl, Goma Fada nomad

The fear of dragons is as old and as powerful as the fear of death itself.



"Enemies of the wood! Your presence here is a slap in Nylea's face. Do not be surprised if she slaps back."
—Telphe, druid of Nylea
"Bolters, flamers, plasma—we hit the xenos with everything, and it just kept coming."
—Captain Uriel Ventris
"If you can't catch them, cut the trees down from beneath them. Force them to fight on our terms."
—Mishra


"It was difficult to tell whether the piles of gore within their warrens were mere trash heaps, sacred altars, or warnings."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV*
In its shadow, everything changed.


"Material at dig site 165-beta confirmed to be of Null Moon origin. Immediate excavation assistance requested."
—Tolaria field dispatch


"It's not just what you know. It's knowing where to find what you don't."


To restore the day-night balance, the Celestus mechanism's Sungold Lock must be reunited with its long-lost key.


"May starving fleas birth a thousand generations on your stubborn hide, cow!"
—Bruse Tarl, Goma Fada nomad

Webs of illusion unravel in the light of truth.

"I don't do tactics. I don't do guard duty. I do damage. Take it or leave it."
"What we do not use up, we use again."
—Urza

"A good lagac will carry you through thick and thin. A bad one . . . well, it's a tasty dinner."
—Raff Slugeater, goblin shortcutter
"Innistrad's ghoulcallers are talented enough, but let me show you what someone with real power can create."
—Liliana Vess

"I come looking for demons and I find a plane full of angels. I hate angels."
—Liliana Vess




"That does it! I'm going back to hunting chickens!"
—Rhirhok, goblin archer
Even the small wounds let hope bleed out.
"May the memory of our fallen heroes ensnare the violent hearts of lesser men."
—Great Threshold of Monserkat inscription
The cautious are wary of their enemies. The wise are also wary of their friends.


"Ambition requires clarity. If you have any doubts, they must be abandoned."
—Bontu, god of ambition


"A keen eye and steady hand are essential for defeating most foes, including hunger."
—Syr Grenphire, knight of Garenbrig
"One day every pillar will be a tree and every hall a glade."
—Trostani

"Oh, you fellas are going to love the lockup. Excellent gruel. Very low ceilings."
—Libuse, Boros sergeant
"Beyond this gate there are no citizens, only predators and prey."
—Domri Rade


"The curious merely amass knowledge. The ambitious use it."
—Telim'Tor
Upon discovering what had become of her sisters, Sigarda could only weep.
"Lady Luck, smile on me!"

"Not Gruul? Then die!"
—Borborygmos

Everything from damaged furniture to inconvenient corpses becomes fuel for Ziatora's ever-burning foundry.
Odric resisted the vampire's curse with all his strength. But after a lifetime of fighting monsters, he was doomed to become one himself.

It harmonizes with the essence of its master.


Cries of anguish quickly spurred cries of action.

"Let nothing own the skies but the wind."
—Dejara, Giltwood druid
"When I meditate I see the world as it should be. All that does not fit, I remove."
—Alovnek, Boros guildmage
Her plans may yet bear fruit.





No one knows what she is watching, but she never takes her eyes off it.
"Thank you. This blade becomes so hot in my hand, but your blood has quenched it."

"Where's the fun in an escape if it's not at least a little daring?"
"As one, nature lifts its voice to tell you this: 'No.'"
He wanders the land in search of Good Ass.


The elves arriving in Wirewood had no homes, let alone weapons, but they knew that the forest would always provide.
"If you ask me, those root-lovers value mindless dogma over progress."
—Trivaz, Izzet mage
"It is my cry that wakes you in the night, and my body that crouches in the shadow. I am Tzeentch and you are the puppet that dances to my tune."
—*The Book of Tzeentch*





Its diet consists of the rare everyberry, which tastes different every time. It loves the surprise!

"Every seed holds strength and teaches patience."
"I would rather cast myself into the abyss than let my blood stain the cap of those monsters."
—Syr Alin, the Lion's Claw



"Full of beauty and grace, with a predator's instincts. . . Although she wanders, I have always thought Mirri belongs in Llanowar most of all."
—Rofellos, Llanowar emissary


Options will cost you, but a lack of them will cost you even more.
Those who forget the horrors of the past are doomed to re-meet them.




Travelers to Lathnu, high on the Devra Cliffs, need not fear the political strife of Ghirapur . . . but they have other dangers to worry about.

Its silent slithering belies its bulk.




Friends teach what you want to know. Enemies teach what you *need* to know.
The creatures of Zendikar are opportunists, eating whatever is available to them. Like goblins. Or boats.
Mephidross gives up treasure easily . . . as long as you take its place.
Stinking of rot, it leaps between gravestones in search of its next meal.
"It took magic to extract one of the stones and five people to carry it."
—Tolarian research notes

A gwyllion's favorite trap is the vanity mirror. A bewitched piece of glass traps the looker's soul and does away with the body.
A symbol of power and wealth, the only commodities that matter to the Orzhov.
"The war polluted the land, turning what had once been fruitful fields into fetid morasses of mud and rusted corpses."
—*The Antiquities War*


"Like Day from Night, / I'll live my life apart from you, just glimpsing you across the sky, / because you cannot change, my dear, and nor can I."
—"Love Song of Night and Day"
Its frill inspired the design of efficient aether collectors.





"We measure our progress in heartbeats."
—Prime Speaker Zegana
Her sword burns with such brightness that foes avert their eyes and arrows divert their paths.
"I feel in them a sense of duty and commitment, yet I can feel nothing else. It is as if their duty is to an empty void."
—Razia, Boros archangel
To Mirrodin, an explosive. To Phyrexia, a missionary.


Within weeks, more slivers nested in Otaria than ever existed on Rath.
The Arbiter is a conduit of justice, a will so disciplined that it dispenses justice without ego or remorse.
Imps are just intelligent enough to have an understanding of cruelty.
Aspiring to earn their place in the afterlife, acolytes train every day against those who fell short of that glory.
A devil's hands are never idle.
"We must rely on our own knowledge, not on the dogma of the seekers or the mutterings of the sphinxes."
—Tullus of Palandius


"Arise. You have been anointed by the light. Go forth and fight without fear, for you shall be victorious."
"She knows every step of this coastline, both above and below the surface, and she has hideouts all along the way. She will get you there."
—Jori En, expedition leader


"One day, the dark glory of the void will swallow the light of the stars once and for all!"
—Magus Lucea Kane

In the Talruum language, there is no word for "surprised."
Beneath the fae's constant pranks runs a subtler undercurrent of mockery: the influence of Oona, their hidden queen.


Over such beauty, wars are fought. With such power, wars are won.

It sees shaped stone and carved wood as mutilations.
"They're in the walls! Can't you hear them?"
"Tools and artisans can be destroyed, but the act of creation is inviolate."
—Elspeth Tirel
You might leave here, Chenndra, should another take your place . . . .

With clarity of vision comes clarity of function.
"Let the land dwellers know the coast is no longer the border between our realms. A new age of empire has begun."


"If I fail to offer myself, we will surely be overrun. My fate would be the same."

"Your presumption is your downfall."
"The earth shook, the sky rained fire, and it seemed the world was ending."
—Benalish refugee
The line between dream and death is gauzy and fragile. She leads those too near it from one side to the other.

"Buy something or move along."

"The best way to keep a secret is to forget it."
—Lazav


"Feed the rumor mills with delicious treachery. Bad blood between those two is a good deal for us."
—Kamiz, Obscura Oculus
"Shall we turn away a worthy soul because his parents were peasants? I think not."
—Lucilde Fiksdotter, leader of the Order of the White Shield


"It offers you what you want, not what you need."
—Braids, dementia summoner
"We shall forever roam."
—Ayli, high priest of the Eternal Pilgrims




He wished for knowledge, but not for the will to apply it.


"The soul is only as eternal as I say it is."
—Sharuum the Hegemon
Mourning shifts seamlessly to celebration as she chooses her next suitor.
The ceremonial "incense" was a concoction of Edgar's own design, a precise blend of blood from his favorite human lineages.
Olivia set a few villagers loose in the hedge maze as part of the evening's "entertainment."
"He's paid his price. Now you pay mine."
No two see the same Maro.




"The price is written at the bottom of the cup."


Tales of heroes past galvanize the heroes of the future.
Its etchings tell the ur-golems' stories of an entity able to force life into a lifeless plane.
No duelist is without equal in Paliano.


This card is named My First Tome.

The only thing it likes more than discovering a pit of bones is adding to it.
Vampires know blood and the systems that carry it. And they know exactly where to strike to set it free.
"This palace will be our fire-spit, and roasted prince our victory meal. Send in the torch-pigs!"
—Ghut Rak, Gruul guildmage

Unsuccessful in their early battle for Montford, the Orcs quickly tempered their bloodlust with cowardice.
A minotaur does not distinguish between human, satyr, and triton. They are all meat.
"You didn't come all this way just to bother me, did you? Say your piece and be gone."


"Are you thinking what I'm thinking?"
Danger often lurks in the allure of crystal shards.

The corruption stirred the heavens above, awaking a shining champion.

Too stupid to survive, too dumb to die.
"Their spirits walk the winds and fill my soul."
From a whisper to a roar, the call is heard by all and refused by none.


"Any fool who would die for honor is better off dead."
—Cabal Patriarch

"You can come back once you've learned some manners—and figured out how to reconstitute your physical forms."


The forge of Purphoros burns in the heart of Mount Velus, attracting dragons with its blistering heat.
"He knows he has a short span of life, that the day will come when he must pass through the wall of oblivion . . ."
—William Faulkner


"You're about to be struck by a brilliant idea!"
Yavimaya lights the quickest path to battle.

"I regret feeding Kaervek's hunger for power—far better to live with animals innocent of such ambitions."
—Jolrael
It tears the flesh from your bones and then swallows the ash with its fiery maw.
When it croaks, so do you.


As the path he sought came into focus, Niv-Mizzet took steps to prevent others from approaching it.
Stand your post for duty. Stand your ground for honor.
"Do not treat your people as you treat your artifacts. Let them go, and they will live; seal them here, and they will die."
—Urza, to Radiant
Some elves battled too long in the deep shadow, their swords dipped too often in tainted flesh and poisoned blood.

A blazing sun that never sets.

As subtle as a bogbeast
—Witherbloom expression meaning
"crude and clumsy"

There are two lives: the life you live before you see a unicorn, and the life you live after.
"From a tiny sprout, the greatest trees grow and flourish. May the seeds of your mind be equally fruitful."


"Ludevic's laboratory is a veritable wonderland. I have never felt so inspired."
—Stitcher Geralf
Regardless of the century, plane, or species, developing artificers never fail to invent the ornithopter.
"No elf can match a Tuskeri in combat. Why not charge?"
—Knorjolvin, Tuskeri raider

Many an inventor has collapsed under the pressure to create a flawless design.


"I have become a gourmet of sorts. Each soul has its own distinctive flavor. The art is in inviting the right company to the feast."

He's smart for a goblin. He can do *two* things: hit *and* run.

In the autumn, she casts her seeds across the streets below, and come spring, her children rise in service to the Conclave.

The wounded see the glow of its vials long before they see its wings diving out of the clouds.

Embrace the Harbinger
—Suq'Ata expression meaning "abandon hope"
"The finest minions know what I need without me ever saying a thing."
—Liliana Vess
"The dust beneath our feet was once part of a mighty civilization. Shall we too provide the path for a future generation?"
—Sensei Golden-Tail






One of the few Soltari who can cross the shadow barrier, Lyna serves as an emissary to the outside world. A quick thinker and convincing speaker, she does whatever she can to lead her people out of the shadows and into substance.
"Gather your strength. Prepare yourself."
—Jeska, to Radha
So many candles. So many flammables. So little time.


Jenrik's tower is served by those who once sought to enter it uninvited.





"The invasion has awoken slumbering mountains," noted Urza. "Good. We can use all the help we can get."
"Stand back. This part gets messy."

It roams in both the worlds of the living and the dead but belongs to neither.
"This is the forest primeval. The murmuring pines and the hemlocks . . . Stand like Druids of eld."
—Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, "Evangeline"




"Dauthi blood is Soltari wine."
—Soltari *Tales of Life*
"What's softer than silk, stronger than steel, and quieter than thought?"
—Warlock riddle
When the salvage team brought in the shattered gearhulk, a wave of excitement swept through the renegade foundry.

Though slow-witted and slow-moving, they are quick to anger.


"Which is more filled with poison: the flower of the moonglove or the minds of elves?"
—Vessifrus, flamekin demagogue



Its last life is spent tormenting your dreams.
From every kill, a gruesome trophy.
"Should your chosen emissary be able to fluctuate triharmonic pentodes, however unlikely, I shall shunt excess negavolt radicals."
"Nature is a wonderful engineer but works far too slowly for my tastes."


Sanctions, mandates, regulations . . . These things mean nothing to the natural world.

"We learned from the best. And the worst. Pretty much whoever was available."


"There is always more to give."

In the galleon's grand cathedral, conquistadors swore vows of faith. In its wreckage, they swore vows of revenge.


Yawgmoth brushed Urza's mind, and Urza's world convulsed.

"I don't understand. He's normally so well behaved!"




Benalia has a complex caste system that changes with the lunar year. No matter what the season, the only caste that cannot be attained by either heredity or money is that of the Hero.



It's not known whether the Thran built the device to forge their wonders or to defend them.

"You will fully understand fear when you discover it is the final thing you put your faith in."
—Nicol Bolas
"We are one with the wild things. Life blooms from our fingertips and nature responds to our summons."
—Jade creed
"Crispy! Scarback! Load another volcano-ball."
—Stumphobbler Thuj, orcish captain




"It has been my experience that disasters like to strike in pairs."
"Could there be a fouler act? No doubt the baron knows of one."
—Autumn Willow
"As long as I pull the strings, you will dance."
—Tezzeret
"Words of power never disappear. They sleep, awaiting those with the will to rouse them."
"Hup, two, three, four,
Dunno how to count no more."
Every day the cat returns to kill the same mouse, which sinks again into the cauldron's brew.
"How easily your flames are quenched."
—Baral, Chief of Compliance

The Quicksilver Sea hissed and bubbled at the indignity. The Vulshok shaman just smiled.




Once he'd worked out which end of the thing was sharp, he was promoted to guard duty.




"About, about, in reel and rout
The death-fires danced at night;
The water, like a witch's oils,
Burnt green, and blue and white."
—Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
Passage to the abyss is free, but the return trip will cost you.
Some vampires reject the decadent trappings of their kind. Once they turn feral, no amount of blood will satisfy their hunger.


So great is his wisdom and spirit that many who have met him say that they stood before a giant of a man and talked to the wisest of the four winds.
An emblem of a secret guild, the Dimir insignia is seen only by its own members—and the doomed.
"Don't try to hit your enemies. Concentrate on the space between them, and fill the air with doom."
—Spear-Tribe teaching
One thread connected all the travelers' stories: the ferocity of the mongoose.
"The end is justified in being mean. Or something like that."
"Peril is in the eye of the beholder. At least, if your aim is good."
—Jaya Ballard

Unanswered prayers are themselves answers.
—Nantuko teaching
A lich must consume mortal souls to feed its eternal life.

"When the land is angry, so are they."
—Nissa Revane
Anyone other than a goblin would've gotten only a hand caught in the cookie jar.


"You tread upon the land all the time, yet you seem dismayed when it moves to step on you."
—Nissa Revane
Hopes and prayers can carry the same force as swords and torches.
He has the biggest bashing stick, so it's a safe bet he's the leader.
The middle blade was just right.



"Enter this palace-gate and ask the news Of greatness fallen into dust and clay."
—*The Arabian Nights*, trans. Burton
One moment, conscious only of a sense of repose. The next moment, hearing the trudge of his own footsteps. He sighed and squinted into the glare ahead.


Liliana whispered to whatever consciousness Oketra and Bontu had left. "You are the gods. He is the usurper. You know what to do."
"Why are we following the goblin? Can he even read that map?"
—Daphne Vail, *Diremore* first mate


"I've never seen a world where aether weaves through every aspect of nature."
It loves blending into its environment, ambushing prey, and long scuttles on the beach.

A drastic measure for dangerous times.
"Spread out, you idiots! Spread out!"
—Marsden, party leader, last words
The Boros legionnaire saw a noble sacrifice, the Rakdos thug a blazing suicide, and the Izzet alchemist an experiment gone awry.
Even the lost and undead need a protector.
"Abzan, Jeskai, Sultai, Mardu, Temur—names lost to history, yet worthy of further study."
—Narset
Energy surges in Izzet labs are opportunities for experimentation.

If you're looking for it, it's available. The question is how much you're willing to pay.
These omnivorous gorillas have no qualms about a diet composed of equal parts fruit and Phyrexians.


"The landscape shimmered and I felt a chill breeze. When my vision cleared, I found myself alone among the corpses of my fallen friends."
—Journal found in Numai


"Let's just say my people are in the business of capital acquisition and intellectual property speculation."
—Er-Miral

Druids hold certain plants to be sacred and use their leaves and wood as a spellcasting focus.
"Those may be the squirms of one life ending or of another beginning. Either way, I'd leave it alone."
—Rakka Mar
Inside even the humblest goblin lurks the potential for far greater things—and far worse.

"The clamor of the city drowns all voices. But together we can sing a harmony that will resonate from Ravnica's tallest spires to her deepest wells."
The sparkmage shrieked, calling on the rage of the storms of his youth. To his surprise, the sky responded with a fierce energy he'd never thought to see again.

Even after a false god tore the magic from Dominaria, power still radiated from the Mirari sword that slew her.
"You know what I was,/ You see what I am: change me, change me!" —Randall

The Earth herself lends her strength to these walls of living stone, which possess the stability of ancient mountains. These mighty bulwarks thwart ground-based troops, providing welcome relief for weary warriors who defend the land.






"I'll call you Reginald, and you're Mimi, and you're Tank, and you're Bobo..."



"Urborg used to be lovely—scenic volcanoes, respectable lich lords. Since the Cabal came with their nightmares and thrulls, it's all gone to the worms."
—Mister Lostspoons, Skulltown gossip

"It's easy to get taken in by the spectacle, to enjoy a bit of naughty amusement. But make no mistake: the Cult of Rakdos is a danger."
—Tajic

"I will not rest until the stench of eyeblights is eradicated from these woods."

The elves learned long ago that anything left here slowly vanishes. Now it is a sacred site where the dead are laid to rest and where unnatural magic is erased forever.



The Izzet learn something from every lesson they teach.
For most, war is a calamity. For some, an opportunity. And for the very few, a pleasure.


Some heroes line their coats with yeti fur. More yetis line their bellies with heroes.
Cats place their gifts with care, so that a bare foot will step on them in the middle of the night.
When one leonin hunts, many more are surely nearby.
All the fury of the Vulshok with only a trace of their recklessness.
"Ideas don't have to be big to be great."





"Nature is the endless dance between life and death."
—Seton, centaur druid

"Her mind is an incredible mix of emotion and power. Even if I could grasp it, I couldn't hold it for long."
—Jace Beleren, on Chandra Nalaar
What happens when it is the dream that wakes and the sleeper that fades into memory?


"The dead make good soldiers. They can't disobey orders, never surrender, and don't stop fighting when a random body part falls off."
—Nevinyrral, *Necromancer's Handbook*
"When gods become apathetic, the people will worship anyone who answers their pleas."
—Kiora



"The Consulate pushed me to my limit, darling, and this is the result."


What the initiates face in the final trial is completely at Hazoret's discretion.




"Do you like it, Sister? Its dreadful visage was inspired by your own."



Bores ruin a party. Boars are party to ruin.

I tell you, there was so many arrows flying about you couldn't hardly see the sun. So I says to young Angus, "Well, at least now we're fighting in the shade!"

"As the sun rose behind the Bone Spire, an angel appeared over the charnel fields, bringing a surge of new hope."
—Krinnea, *Siege of the Bone Spire*
Every world is a work in progress, constantly reshaped by time, disasters, and even the powerful magic of Planeswalkers.
The Curse of Wandering permeated Amonkhet long before Nicol Bolas. He simply harnessed it.
Progress comes at a price.
A true reflection of nature: death fostering life.
"Such rage," thought Vhati, gazing up at the thunderhead from the Predator. "It is Greven's mind manifest."

"KILL! KILL FOR MOGIS!"
"It's easy to see why those Gruul dirtbags follow him—the only orders he gives are 'Crush them!' and 'We eat!'"
—Teysa Karlov
Out of the blackness and stench of the engulfing swamp emerged a shimmering figure. Only the splattered armor and ichor-stained sword hinted at the unfathomable evil the knight had just laid waste.


She displays her scars with pride.



The enthusiasm of the young, sharpened by the discipline of a soldier.
They know a hoverguard's only blind spot is directly above it.

Life's circle has become inverted in Grixis. The same energy is endlessly recycled and becomes more stagnant with each pass.
It keeps intruders out and experiments in.
"Is it true the evil that people do follows them into death? Let's find out."
—Liliana Vess





"Don't be afraid when you hear the wolves howl. Be afraid when you don't hear them at all."
—Saint Trogen, the Slayer
"Some gardeners sing to plants. I tell them stories—stories of how they once ruled the world, of the mortals who destroyed their kind, and of revenge."
—Bougrat, druid of the Cult of Yore




Only the heroic and the mad follow mountain goat trails.
Its graceful glide paints the ocean floor with strokes of luminescence.
Sometimes the Astrotorium's stunts look dangerous because they absolutely are.

Designed like the gargadons of Keld—big and brutal.

A true reflection of nature: death fostering life.
Citizens are free to do as they wish, within the confines of the Consulate's laws.


Centuries ago, a quest to harness time became a spiral into chaos.
"I wrecked your metal guy, boss. But look! I made you an ashtray."
"The bird of wonder dies, the maiden phoenix,/ Her ashes new-create another heir/ As great in admiration as herself." —William Shakespeare, *King Henry the Eighth*

Unbreakable and unappetizing, the crab grows uninterrupted, sometimes to the size of a cottage and beyond.



Silumgar dominates his clan from a fortress on the Marang River, where he rests upon piles of treasure.

When asked how many paths reach enlightenment, the monk kicked a heap of sand. "Count," he smiled, "and then find more grains."





Moss-covered statues littered the area, a macabre monument to the Basilisk's power.
"Approach from behind. That way, if it does charge, at least you aren't in front of it."
—Vivien Reid
The myr are like verdigris: an ever-present patina on the surface of a metal world.

The sea gives, and the sea takes. Some just help with the taking.

In fire there is the spark of chaos and destruction, the seed of life. In ice there is perfect tranquility, perfect order, and the silence of death.

The crystal pulsed with the power of Teferi's Planeswalker spark. Had Jhoira given him a blessing or a curse?
"The white fox grinned. 'How about a bet, dragon? If I win, the skies are mine.' After he stopped laughing, the dragon agreed."
—*Tales of the Fae*





Debates between wizards are never purely academic.


Burnt flesh. Blackened soul.

Against the infinite backdrop of space, isn't all golf miniature?

"Our ruling is final."
When a Phyrexian agent cannot be killed, they must be contained.

"Only a mind unfettered with the concerns of the flesh can see the world as it truly is."

"I am the holy wind that shall avenge the Cabal's victims."
Whether trained, ridden, or eaten, few goblin military innovations have rivaled the bug.
Heart, mind, soul—weapons all.

"Blood from the vein is the finest vintage to accompany a feast of the mind."
—Runo Stromkirk
"Nothing of the Maelstrom is quiet or easy."
—Ajani Goldmane
In truth, her own faith was gone, trodden in Ulamog's wake. She pantomimed the blessing in the hope that it would inspire others to continue to struggle.
"Greet death with sword in hand."

There may exist powers even greater than Phyrexia.


"My mind is the spread of the canopy. My heart is the embrace of the roots. I am deathless Llanowar, its fury and its peace."





Nature protects its own.

Charting the Spine of the World is best left to the disposable.
A true puppet master has no need for strings.

The spirits of Argoth grant new life to those who repent the folly of enslaving their labors to devices.
A demon cannot be trusted, and a dragon will not be ruled.
Fusing intelligence with the power of undeath requires inspiration of the darkest kind.
"Respect the earth, for it will one day be your shield and another day your blanket."
—Liefellen, Quirion exarch



It's not just the wind. It's not all in your head. And it's *definitely* something to worry about.
"By fate or by will, every reign must come to an end."
—Kethis, the Hidden Hand
"Verdant bloom does exist. It merely hides for its own safety."
"Even in death, we never stop growing."
King Darien's breath crystallized and fell to the frozen battlefield, but its command carried true to all soldiers of New Argive.
Though the shaman rarely got what she wanted, she was never disappointed in the result.
A bullet renders all sizes equal.





"A wisp of life remains in the undergloom of Death: a visible form, though no heart beats within it."
—Homer, *The Iliad*, trans. Fitzgerald
The Keldons used the toxic vents in the cracked earth to bolster their home's defenses.
The storms of the wastelands form quickly and hit hard. Few have anything to do with rain.



There is wealth enough inside to cause the rise and the ruin of dynasties.
When the ruins awakened, so did their defenses.


"The dead may be beyond the law, but speaking the wisdom of the dead will afford no protection!"
—Calmont, Aysen bureaucrat



"Your proofs were a bit nontraditional, but effective nonetheless. Full marks."

"In my downtime I used to paint the vistas. Now the vistas disappear faster than my downtime."


"Us hungry, need food . . . . Lots of books . . . . Hmm . . . ."
Call one, call them all.


"The Gitaxians whisper among themselves of other worlds. If they exist, we must bring Phyrexia's magnificence to them."

"That must weigh heavily on your soul. Let me purge it for you."
As battle raged in Shiv, a strange new ally appeared from below the ravaged ground.
An accessory in every sense of the word.

"Those who know only one path to victory can never hope to triumph."
—The Blind Seer

"Don't think of it as selling your soul. It's more like you're bequeathing it to me."
—Vilis, Broker of Blood
When the Great Rift opened across the galaxy, many Imperial worlds were lost to chaos.




Few of Rath's rivers follow a steady course, so many new channels are carved for them.
A peasant can do more by faith than a king by proclamation.

The worst part is that you won't even remember how much he's taken from you.
Whereas the rebels fight to defend the land, they work to renew it.
Nothing remained but a few drifting embers and the smell of smoldering hair.


The oil sloshes against his skull as he nears his destination: the Frogtosser Games and the lighting of the Flaming Boggart.
On the volcanic continent of Akoum, bizarre vegetation clusters around gas vents, and jagged mountain peaks rise high into the air.


Throughout Chinese history, generals have often been referred to as tigers for their fierceness, strength, and bravery.
"To make a prairie it takes a clover and one bee,/ One clover, and a bee,/ And revery." —Emily Dickinson

"I will not live as a slave. If you would be free, then fight alongside me."
In the moment before her execution, she realized what it meant to be a pyromancer, to be alive, to be Chandra.

"The more our numbers grow, the more I gain hope that Volrath and his cursed stronghold will one day fall."
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
"The gods used their feathers to paint all the colors of the world."
—Yare-Tiva, warden of Gramur forest

Ashnod found few willing to trade their humanity for the power she offered them.

"Belief is the strongest mortar."
None know if this Giant is the result of aberrant magics, Siamese twins, or a mentalist's schizophrenia.
"This new chaos confounds us. We must fling it into our winds, our storms. These we can control."
—Bezzit Plar, Esper stormcaller
"The Mardu are like the gore swine. We are wild, hunt in packs, and rarely clean the blood from our blades."
—Vallash, Mardu warrior


Like a great bellows it hisses, and its kin, both living and dead, are lifted to safety.
"Expect my visit when the darkness comes. The night I think is best for hiding all." —Ouallada
"Without order comes errors, and errors kill on Tolaria."
—Barrin, master wizard
"Nature has a way of adapting to and overcoming any force that seeks its end."
@-Vivien Reid

Exhale, and let the winds carry your soul for all eternity.
"The Ancestor saved us for a purpose."
"The Immortal Sun will bring us true eternal life to replace the everlasting shadow of undeath."

"Healing is more art than magic. Well, there is still quite a bit of magic."
Prismari students dance in the tension between passion and perfection.
A knight's devotion to their steed goes only so far.


"You will kneel before me, even if I have to split the earth under your feet!"
—Ash Kronor, Keldon warlord
The smallest seed of regret can bloom into redemption.




The stone whispers tales of darkness and fire. She replies, "Tell me more."


Death arrives on tattered wings and stolen bones.
Once an angel, now an abomination.
Side effects may include foul odors, scalding steam, and spontaneous nonexistence.
"We've endured your slights to Gaea with the grace of tolerance. Now behold the grace of our ferocity."
Darkness doesn't always send its minions to do its dirty work.
Benalia has a complex caste system that changes with the lunar year. No matter what the season, the only caste that cannot be attained by either heredity or money is that of the hero.

The only force on Ixalan not interested in finding the golden city is Ixalan itself.



Their ranks are thin, their formation is improvised, their weapons are borrowed, and you'd best get out of their way.

He combs the streets looking for the lost light, the discarded enigmas of the city.

"I've dreamt of the future, Isperia. Danger is on the horizon. You must heed my warning."
"The most powerful dreams visit those who shelter in a dragon's skull."
—Chianul, Who Whispers Twice

"Even the ground is our friend."
—Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order

2018 North America Vintage Championship


There is no glory to be gained in the kingdom of the dead.
—Vec tomb inscription

"תהילה נﬠלמה; תהילה הייתה בכל מקום."
—מגילת ההיווצרות והמקור
The chasm of years and worlds collapsed under the power of their embrace.





"Beware the merrows, whose envy and covetousness surpasses even that of the ravenous whirlpools where they dwell."
—*The Book of Other Folk*
"Your life will set with the sun."

"There will come a day so dark you will pray for death. On that day your prayers will be answered."
@-Minaldra, the Vizag Atum
The way opened before him, and the dust of centuries stirred in the air.
"Canyons in the Phoberos badlands are essentially gates to the Underworld."
—Mirinthes, Akroan captain


Options will cost you, but a lack of them will cost you even more.
Once they reached Orazca, the Legion's explorers ransacked tombs and temples, hunting for the Immortal Sun.
"You have almost completed your four years, my son. Soon you shall be a Skyknight."
—Arna Kennerüd, Skyknight
"Let's see my brother's stitched-up little toys compete with this."
—Ghoulcaller Gisa



Are merfolk humans with fins, or are humans merfolk with feet?
"Forget yourself. Forget your city. Forget your homes, your families, the debts and obligations that hold you to this world."
"These creatures offer new challenges in the scrutiny of entrails."
—Oracle *en*-Vec
Will players understand that the creature is being crushed by two parentheses? Not a chance.

The wires crawl over broken metal and heat themselves to melting, filling cracks quickly and efficiently.
Hunters lure the stripling boar into the open, hoping to trap greater prey.
"The first blow is the most important. It often negates the need for a second."
—Agrus Kos
"I turn around and see nothing, yet I know it is behind me. Its fingers rummage in my mind, crafting new ideas."
These beings embody the essence of true heroes long dead. Summoned from the dreamrealms, they rise to meet their enemies.


"Here are some bones for you to choke on, dear brother!"
—Gisa, to Geralf
Even war cannot dull Skemfar's beauty.



The boar leads its rider to victory in battle, but it doesn't know how close it is to becoming the victory feast.






"The merchant asked for riches no one had ever dreamed of. The djinn, smiling, granted his wish."
—Afari, *Tales*

The land knows no difference between the graves of commoners and nobles.
Just when you thought you'd be safe, in the middle of an open field with no Eldrazi around for miles.
"There's some new darkness in the air tonight. If I were you, I'd stay home and lock the doors."
—Ferrick, village warden

"Bury your dead deep. The boars are hungriest while the corpse is still warm."
—Paulin, trapper of Somberwald


"Take care what you offer the ignus. Food, perhaps. Coins. But nothing flammable!"
—Stovic, village eccentric
"When the land is angry, so are they."
—Nissa Revane
"For its time as a mortal, Anger chose a shell of boiling rock."
—Scroll of Beginnings
"Early Vodalians worshipped Svyelun, goddess of the Pearl Moon. Later she became a more abstract figure."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. V*


The sacred Anima's eyes are blind to all but the grandest truths.


The dead serve as their own tombstones.
Its wide-reaching roots draw more than water.

Goblins' motivational techniques are crude, but effective.

Steady and silent as the deep current, the reejerey guides the course of the school.
"Ready . . . uh . . . fire!"
In their final moments, the demons gazed upon grace in its purest form.




The Sun Empire's cities are built from the bones of the earth.



"Anna and Blaine said the ride was awesome. Yolanda and Zachary aren't back yet."




Giant-sized body. Goblin-sized brain.



Each temple is a door to a horrible future.
"What need have I for cavalry when I can have horse and rider both in one?"
—Jolrael
"Remember Sir Shandlar! Remember and stand firm!" —rallying cry of the Eberyn militia
"A splendid talent, admired of all men! His folly lay in serving Cao Cao's power."

"As one, nature lifts its voice to tell you this: 'No.'"
As their roots soaked in a weak tea of bogwater and decay, the trees absorbed the essence of death into their living tissue.
"The brothers are brilliant, but their quarreling will be the death of me."
—Tocasia, journal entry
"What's got three legs and three heads and wants to kill us? That's not a riddle!"
—Jayeen, Fallaji scout

Before he was subjugated by demonic forces, Dakkon was a master smith of unrivaled artistry.


His mouth melted to slag, yet somehow he kept screaming.
Bitter as wormwood, sweet as mulled wine.

"Reality has exiled me. I am no longer bound by its laws."
"This world will be ruled by its rightful sovereigns, not these hideous pretenders."
"The shadow travels toward the apex. I predict we will soon see the true measure of darkness."


Dominaria's most extravagant crypt nevertheless holds an empty grave.

The sky is her stage.

"Those of faith are those of strength."
—Autumn Willow


Despite its fearsome stature, it is as elusive as a shadow, circling round to stalk those who presume to hunt it.
"For us, a rope represents the ties that bind the kor. For you, it's more literal."




"From the swallows, I learned how to ride the winds to anywhere, and from my tears, I mastered how to harness the water."


His verdict is always guilty. His sentence is always death.
Goblins are eager to follow orders, especially when those orders involve stealing, hurting, annoying, eating, destroying, or swearing.
"What wears down my people most, I think, is not the danger, but the endless screeching outside our camp."
—Merrik Aidar, Benalish patrol

Centuries' worth of black iron lie beneath the soil of every Imperial world, their civilization built on never-ending strife.
Her angry call split the sky. From that rift descended her champions.

Intention: Do a mirror image of the Noble Hierarch card, only this time with a goblin.

It eats what it wants to eat—which is anything that moves.
"These sailors on our shores are like the dinosaurs that plunder eggs from nests. They live on the labors of others."
—Itzama the Crested
The most violent and destructive storms in Femeref occur on cloudless days.





The definition of "bite-sized treat" depends on who you ask.

It was given life by the etherium of a hundred slain Esperites.
Only those who have nothing have nothing to fear.

Amidst the darkest ashes grow the strongest seeds.
Slivers destroy those who come close to the Skep, the central hive. Shards of torn metal litter the ground as a warning to any artificers inquisitive about the hive's inner workings.


"Can't a fella get a moment's peace around here?"




"Thick hides and layered armor won't help when I freeze you from the inside out."
—Heidar, Rimewind master
All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.




Freed from their respective labs, the two weirds formed a partnership, feeding on the arcane energies of war.

"My family protects all families."
"Sleep now, you big brute."
—Kelsien, the Plague
"Our lives are woven together like the trees' branches over our heads, forming a canopy that protects us all."
No one knows whether they were named for the diseases they carry or for the speed at which they multiply.
Necrites killed Jherana Rure, ending the counter-insurgency.

Although they're protective of all creatures, many treefolk are especially fond of the empathic kithkin.
"Angels guide me while I wake,
and I will watch for evil's creep.
Angels guard me while I dream,
and I will rest in peaceful sleep."
—Amulet inscription

Feldon found the first of these canes frozen in the Ronom Glacier.
It is consistently inconsistent.



















"The best way over the mountain is through."
"Holy places are no longer sanctuary from death, and death is no longer sanctuary from anything."
—Thalia, Knight-Cathar
"Any dream is a robust harvest. Still, I prefer the timeworn dreams, heavy with import, that haunt the obsessive mind."
"If you want to test wisdom, offer it to fools and watch how they tear it up."

The wise pay as much attention to what they throw away as to what they keep.
Spirit is the sword and experience the sharpening stone.
—Arabian proverb
"It's not work if you enjoy it."
Created to capture the spark of genius for later use.
Heavy light flooded across the landscape, cloaking everything in deep crimson.
"My brother, it may now be time to ring the bell and put out the call for aid."

"Those who do not submit will be consumed."
"The key to unlocking this puzzle is within you."
—Doriel, mentor of Mistral Isle

The vast network of predation on Jund has actually caused some strange creatures to adapt to being eaten.
"Your death will be a balm, your passing a welcome revision, and all will sigh with peace to know of your demise."
Good health beckons many a vigorous follower.

Its predecessors were etched with the wisdom of ancients; its own etchings bear warnings of a future fraught with war.
None know if this Giant is the result of aberrant magics, Siamese twins, or a mentalist's schizophrenia.
Likes: augmentation, fluffy animals, creative templating.


"Furballs? Try dealing with fireballs."
—Chandra Nalaar







"Auntie Grub had caught a goat, a bleating doe that still squirmed in her arms. At the same time, her warren decided to share with her a sensory greeting of hot tar . . . ."
—A tale of Auntie Grub

"One last push, and then my task is done."




They are tasked with protecting the entrance to the embalming chambers.

"Death is no excuse for disobedience."
—Liliana Vess


Many people believe a misguided wizard created the first owlbear, but others insist that these creatures have always dwelled in the Feywild.


There is no glory to be gained in the kingdom of the dead.
—Vec tomb inscription


The relics of the God-King are many, but no other inspires as much awe in his faithful or dread in his foes.
"I spent some time in the Legion, but I'm done taking orders all day."
"Nobody asked you to butt in, Jace. But thanks."
—Chandra Nalaar

Stay alert: his lumbering may shake the ground itself, but in water, he glides.


Legend has it that the world was hatched from a dingus egg.
Even gods have pets.

"Ambition requires clarity. If you have any doubts, they must be abandoned."
—Bontu, god of ambition




The perfect antidote for a tightly packed formation.






For some creatures, existing is only a whim.

Devotion does not end with death.
For a moment they stood tall, all fear forgotten.
Those who seek to escape her blades succeed only in dying on their stomachs.
The demon Griselbrand dared to stand against Avacyn, earning him the loathing of thousands and the admiration of a few.


Imagine a thousand tiny mushrooms cropping up within your lungs.
"Looks like we've got company."

After years of training, the Druid becomes one with nature, drawing power from the land and returning it when needed.




Travelers bathe in the falls to wash away curses from the pucas who lurk nearby.


"Oi oi oi, me gotta hurt in 'ere, Oi oi oi, me smell a ting is near, Gonna bosh 'n gonna nosh 'n da hurt'll disappear." —Traditional

"The shadow travels toward the apex. I predict we will soon see the true measure of darkness."

Dragons consider drakes to be mockeries of their perfection, destroying them on sight.

"It's like waking on a bed of a thousand olives during an earthquake of subtle force."
—Afari, *Tales*

"I done forgot more than you'll ever know, pipsqueak."
"Yeah—that's your problem."

"We all borrowed life from the Ancestor to exist in this world. Today, I repay that debt."
A dwarf's life belongs as much to the land as to the dwarf.
—Creed of the Stonethrow Clan
It's the only water source in miles of desert, but the local tribes avoid it at all costs.


The Dimir would hire her, if only they knew where she lived. The Azorius would condemn her, if only they knew her name.

Funerary masks help the newly dead resist the erosion of memory and identity in the Underworld.

Her horn is heard across Innistrad, lifting the hearts of the righteous.


The directors of the Riptide Project wanted instant results on the sliver experiments. They got their wish.

"Oh sure, they buy a lot of ale, but I always find myself needing to rebuild after the giants have paid a visit."
—Belko, owner of Titan's Keg tavern
Wei won the battle of Hefei when Zhang Liao defeated Sun Quan and then foiled a Wu scheme to incite rebellion.

"A little dark magic won't stop me. The worse the curse, the better the prize."
—Radavi, Joraga relic hunter, last words


It's often mistaken for the coming dawn as it gallops across the horizon.
The sacred Anima's eyes are blind to all but the grandest truths.
A wolf without a pack is either a survivor or a brute.
"Look to the north; there you will find aid and comfort." —The Book of Tal
"Walls of a castle are made out of stone,/ Walls of a house out of bricks or of wood./ My walls are made out of magic alone,/ Stronger than any that ever have stood."
—Chrysoberyl Earthsdaughter, *Incantations*



A daggertooth's triumphant roar makes all the sounds of jungle life fall silent.


There was one great tomb more lordly than all of the rest; huge it was, and nobly proportioned. On it was but one word
DRACULA.


"We're going to need a bigger gate."
—Bowen, Barrenton guardcaptain
The seat of Belzenlok's power, the Stronghold serves as the gathering place for the Cabal as their dark influence spreads from Urborg.
"Better for a doun to lose its cenn than its springjacks."


By hammer forged, and by hammer undone.

"Whatever did this is near. Death reversion has not yet occurred. Be alert!"


"It is finished. Now the real work can begin."
—Tezzeret
"I will be your most demanding master, Liliana. But I have great things in mind for you."
It nurtures its masters' glorious future.
The Gruul seek unbounded strength. The Dimir deliver cruel irony.

"In case of fire, treachery, citywide riot, political upheaval, or worldwide societal collapse, break glass."
—Cluestone inscription
"Any one of us could be compromised," said Karn. "No one leaves until we know who can be trusted."


An adventure without a companion is hardly an adventure at all.
"Everyone thinks that leeches maintain a strictly sanguivorous diet, but in fact, most freshwater leeches are carnivores. Wait, where are you going?"
"They are convenient in having no souls, but less so in having no spirit."
—Volrath
The Somberwald is her domain, and she has yet to hear an acceptable excuse for trespassing.
"Belief matters more than truth. Every moment, belief in imaginary things alters lives while truth sits unnoticed and waits."
—Hakim, Loreweaver
"The gods used their feathers to paint all the colors of the world."
—Yare-Tiva, warden of Gramur forest


"As it charged our keep, I mistook it for a bear. After it tore through our ramparts and half the guard, I wished it had been a bear after all."
—Ballista guard
"The final stage of the illness: delirium, convulsions, and death."
—Phyrexian progress notes
"Not again."
—Hans
"A man, and such a fool! I, a woman, will fight them for you."
—Lady Zhurong to her husband Meng Huo, before leading an army against the Shu
"The smallest beast can yet have the greatest heart."
—Gemma, Willow Priestess





Though the currents of the Lanes shift every year, the merrow never lose track of where they are or where they are going.

"More rope may not be necessary."
—Kep, Lunarch inquisitor
The squabble over succession was quickly replaced by the struggle to survive.


The root of all greevils.
"Trying to meet a worthy man in the wrong way is as bad as closing the door on an invited guest."
—Mencius, a Chinese philosopher

Farmers typically keep their flocks at thirteen sheep—one to distract the griffins while they take the other twelve to market.

"I saw the wizard gesturing, but I didn't guess his plan until my Aesthir cried out and went into a dive."
—Arna Kennerüd, Skyknight





Given time, a single seed can sprout a mighty forest.
The foundries of Kaladesh run like clockwork under the supervision of their formidable overseers.


"The scavengers who first found it called it the 'Bone Crank.' Not a bad name, I'd say."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
The mere approach of an Abzan war beast is enough to send enemies fleeing in panic.
There will be no absolution.
"That must weigh heavily on your soul. Let me purge it for you."
The faultless and immaculate castes form the lower tiers of elvish society, with the exquisite caste above them. At the pinnacle is the perfect, a consummate blend of aristocrat and predator.

Dusk follows the light.

One bone broken for every twig snapped underfoot.
—Llanowar penalty for trespassing

Idle chatter beckons many an attentive ear.

After a long hibernation, Argoth began slowly recovering from the ravages of war.

"It has been my honor to improve on the Thran's original design. Perhaps history will remember me in some small part for my work."
—Urza, in his apprenticeship

We all know the legend: Pavel wanders the realms, helping those in greatest need. But is this a measure of his generosity, or of his obligation to atone?
"Kjeldorans should rule supreme, and to the rest, death!"
—Avram Garrisson, leader of the Knights of Stromgald
"Lieutenants dishonored, corpses carted home; The general raises troops again to take revenge."

"They are convenient in having no souls, but less so in having no spirit."
—Volrath



Furious and unable to separate, the bitter rivals consoled themselves by splitting everything else they saw in half.

To the elves, her spear is a compass; to the boggarts, a harbinger of doom.

"Time and space are just new battlefields to be mastered."
"Don't look at me like that. It was either this or being eaten by a groff."
—Dina, Witherbloom mage-student




Merfolk don't always know what they're looking for, but they're certain once they find it.

"I do as I please, little mortal. Do go on about your wishes, though—they amuse me to no end."
Kithkin somnomancers enjoy the peaceful dreams wafting from their victims.

"To make a prairie it takes a clover and one bee,/ One clover, and a bee,/ And revery."
—Emily Dickinson
After its encounter with the spriggan, the patrol was red with anger, green with envy, white with fear, and painfully black and blue.
"We are this city, down to its bones."
Born of volcanic forces, it thrives on the absolute panic it inspires.
"Hunter's fire" was meant for slaying monsters in the Ulvenwald, but that never stopped Ralen from showing it off.
"Impressive."
—Chandra Nalaar



When Urza's war machines became too costly, Tawnos's weaponry replaced them.

Some fiendish mage had created a horrifying wall of living flesh, patched together from a jumble of still-recognizable body parts. As we sought to hew our way through it, some unknown power healed the gaping wounds we cut, denying us passage.

Waterways carve their routes through the land to reflect the paths the aether streams cut through the clouds.

Sometimes the cannoneer must become the cannonball.

"Often greatly outnumbered in battle, Dwarves relied on catapults as one means of damaging a large army."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV*
"Lightning in a bottle? That's not where I need it."
"We are not yet free of Lim-Dûl's terrors."
—Halvor Arensson, Kjeldoran priest
For hundreds of years Ugin slept, encased in the cocoon of stone and magic Sarkhan had created using a shard of a Zendikari hedron. As Ugin lay dormant, his spectral guardians kept vigil.

"There is nothing you can do that I cannot simply deny."
—Ertai, wizard adept
Her hand gently beckons, she whispers your name—
But those who go with her are never the same.






Like moonglove's flowers, the greatest beauty often masks the greatest dangers.







Revenge is a circle without end.

He'd ignite the World Tree itself if he could.
What a lonely agony, the memory of memories lost.
As they fought the Eldrazi, many vampires learned to live among humans. Others were unable to make the adjustment.

Her grand wedding had one goal: to unite the vampire bloodlines under her rule.
"Next time, don't bother."
When he hits people, they stay hit.



"The land already knows its destiny. I simply ask it to share the tale with me."


When the clever counterfeit was accepted by the hive, Volrath's influence upon the slivers grew even stronger.


"They groaned, they stirred, they all uprose,/ Nor spake, nor moved their eyes;/ It had been strange, even in a dream,/ To have seen those dead men rise."/ —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
"When metal instruments are scarce, a saw constructed from the subject's femur will suffice for a craniectomy."
—Ashnod, research notes
At the first sign of enemy scouts, Jula grinned and strapped on his diplomacy helmet.
Sometimes gestures of support are small. Sometimes not.
Artifact construction requires immense resources.
"Begin with your escape and work backward."
—*Way of Secrets*

"Demons prefer to deal with those who believe themselves too wise to be fooled."
—Scroll case inscription

Warriors are combat specialists who bring their deadly skills to bear against the many foes that adventurers face in the course of their journeys.
"What is this foul presence that defies the sun's cleansing rays?"
—Itzama the Crested
Dragon birth lairs are littered with treasure to entice the young from their eggs.
"Our world is vast, but Thraben is its heart. The cathedral must stand even if the hinterlands are lost."
—Thalia, Knight-Cathar


Imagine a thousand tiny mushrooms cropping up within your lungs.



"One knife, two knives, three knives, four—which will drop you to the floor?"
Summoners of efreeti remember only the power of command, never the sting of regret.

One wizard's trash is another wizard's roving gang of abominations.


"To the head of Archaeological Findings: The excavation schedule at dig site 93-beta must be revised. Part of the site has walked off."
—Tolarian field dispatch
We had taken refuge in a small cave, thinking the entrance was too narrow for it to follow. To our horror, its gigantic head smashed into the mountainside, ripping itself a new entrance.
When civilization encroaches on nature, Zendikar encroaches back.
Suddenly, Eldo felt very alone.
The end of evolution.
"Those who do evil and those who do nothing are equally worthy of contempt."


"They say the last owner cut out his own tongue, laughing the whole time. Superstitious drivel, but amusing, isn't it?"
—Hilde the Collector, last known words
"Our lives are connected by divine law. The truth of this will be made evident in time."
—Zedruu the Greathearted
It's pointless to hold on when you have nothing to hold on with.
"The scholars of the Minamo School understood the veil between their world and that of the kami. Moreover, they knew how to exploit it."
—*Observations of the Kami War*

"Some secrets want to be revealed. They burst through the soil of their own accord."
—Dindun of Kulrath Mine

Sometimes you go to hell, and sometimes hell comes to you.
"When the beast cloaks itself in the mighty oak, what good is a bow? When the oak wraps itself around the snarling beast, what good is a hatchet?"
—Dionus, elvish archdruid

The arbiter Galanda Feudkiller judges Lorwyn's squabbles from a lofty perspective.
The histories speak of two feuding rulers whose deaths were celebrated and whose monuments symbolized the end of their wars. In truth they were peaceful lovers, their story lost to the ages.

"Oi oi oi, me gotta hurt in 'ere, Oi oi oi, me smell a ting is near, Gonna bosh 'n gonna nosh 'n da hurt'll disappear." —Traditional
His slaves crave death more than they desire freedom. He denies them both.

Necromancers are judged by the most powerful undead they've ever created. There are those who have animated just a single being, yet are considered the pinnacle of their dark craft.


Whether it howls for hunger or for joy, you're in trouble just the same.
Some who scouted new lands chose to stay.

"Look beyond, to the vascular awareness that all life is a map to greater knowledge."
—Momir Vig, *Biomancy*, vol. I
The vaults of the Necron Dynasties contain all manner of esoteric artifacts, most forged long before many of the younger races even existed.
"On this night, the dark will fear us."
"The Great Serpent slumbers now, but all warmbloods will grovel in the dirt at its awakening!"
Ugin's whispered summons led Sarkhan Vol to the moment that would echo down the centuries and seal Tarkir's fate: the primal battle between Ugin and Nicol Bolas.



"Wisdom, clear my eyes."
Poke a drake in the right place and it becomes as docile as a pet. Poke it in the wrong place and goodbye, hand.


The imp, unaware of its own odor, paused to catch its breath . . . and promptly died.


Stitching is an ever-evolving field, with each new advancement reaching a new height of horror.

"Here, you take it!"





A curse is just another name for an unwanted blessing.




"Your headstone is the last page in the book of your life."
—Murat, Death Speaker
"If it bears wings, I will pin it to the skies over Tefemburu."
—Roya, Zhalfirin archer

The symbol of the Conclave is one of unity, with tree supporting sun and sun feeding tree.
She remembers every word spoken, from the hero's oath to the baby's cry.





Garbage in, treasure out.

The audience quickly realized a few things: it wasn't a magic trick, there wasn't candy in there, and they'd need new clothes.

Every page cost a life; every secret cost a thousand more.
Chandra was driven by her anger, directed particularly at the man who had taken her father from her.


"Two of my Warriors found that the creature was dangerous not only in combat, but also in simple proximity."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry


All elvenkind stood against Phyrexia. The Quirion nation deployed its most spiritual adepts, who wielded the power of their native soil.

A skilled decoy can throw your enemies off your trail. A master decoy can survive to do it again.
Emrakul does not grant wishes. Desires simply align to her will.
As the invasion drew closer, Urza's means began to resemble Phyrexia's end.
Zarv no longer trusted the kitten posters telling him to "hang in there."
Those who kill a jawspur rhino must prepare spells to lift the carcass—even a dozen hunters can't lift its bulk.

Like any young zombie, Gary dreamed of escaping the underworld to join the circus.
The intricate dynamics of Rundvelt Goblin affairs are often confused with anarchy. The chaos, however, is the chaos of a thundercloud, and direction will sporadically and violently appear. Pashalik Mons and his raiders are the thunderhead that leads in the storm.

"Come closer, dear, and let me see that bauble. I've got a match for it somewhere..."
The clouds broke and the sun's rays burst forth; each foul beast in its turn faltered, and was gone.




"He has strength and courage—just way, way too much of both."
—Syr Faren, the Hengehammer



He speaks directly into his supplicants' minds using fiery words that inflame their thoughts and incite their passions.


Sometimes the strongest weapon you can hold in your hand is another hand.

"You are undeserving of the afterlife. You will never feel the God-Pharaoh's embrace."
"Their rain of arrows left only myself alive, cowering within a tree hollow. They did not even come out to loot the bodies."
—Vervamon the Elder


"You'll raid nothing but mist in Istfell."



"They aren't helping the forges. Send them to the surface."
—Furnace boss, sector 12

"I see someone tried to stop you, my pet. How delightful."
—Ghoulcaller Gisa
Most human scholars believe that Merfolk are the survivors of sunken Atlantis, humans adapted to the water. Merfolk, however, believe that humans sprang forth from Merfolk who adapted themselves in order to explore their last frontier.



"To-night the winds begin to rise . . . The rooks are blown about the skies . . . ."
—Alfred, Lord Tennyson, In Memoriam
"Mold could catch you."
—Suq'Ata insult
Joining a guild, even the Gruul, would mean giving up some of his independence. He'd rather smash what he wants to smash.

When night fell, the plane itself was scarred.

The bodies of its victims are the only tracks it leaves.


The lives of elves are long, but their memories are longer. Even after death, they do not desert their homes.

At home among the swaying, supple branches of the treetops, some scouts live their entire lives never touching ground.
"Everyone warns about the sand and the food, but the rats are worse than both put together!"
—Sanwell, letter to his family
"May you drink until you drown but never be sated."
—Odila, witch of Morkrut


"The fishers will throw out their nets and draw them back filled with dust."
—Oracle *en*-Vec

"Tools and artisans can be destroyed, but the act of creation is inviolate."
—Elspeth Tirel
You have been found wanting, though not for much longer.
"I am as the wind that bears me: harsh yet gentle, fleeting yet ever-present. Together we fly beyond imagination."
Sometimes death comes knocking. Sometimes it tears down the walls.






Kitesailing is a way of life—and without practice, the end of it.
"I place this wreath for you, my kin. Even in death, you give me strength to avenge you."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight*

Initiates who had been through the Trial of Knowledge learned to see everything as pieces of a larger puzzle.

"I know just the person for that job."
You see a lock, I see an invitation.


"Fear not the behemoth heard from miles away. Fear the stalking felidar, which reveals itself only for the kill."
—Rielle, the Everwise
"That which would be a fatal mutation in any other species is merely a source of new powers. I am intrigued, yet too fearful to examine it more closely."
—Rukarumel, field journal
"Even in her absence, the light Elspeth kindled in our hearts never faltered."


"When you cannot rely on your sources, trust your own senses. When you cannot trust those, you must follow your instincts."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain

The magistrate had been the goblins' puppet for so long that he made the right decisions with little prompting.

Most denizens of the Imperial hive city live and die without ever setting foot inside the towering skyscrapers of the ruling class.
Teysa convened the meeting of the Obzedat. Kaya ended it.
"Horse? Who needs a horse?"


"Within each of us, the potential for great power waits to be released."
—Zija, Simic mutationist
"The blood of Dromoka and the blood of my veins are the same."


"And the flamingos said, 'Get out of our nest—we can't be seen with the likes of you!' So, the griffin ate them."
—Azeworai, "The Ugly Bird"
I didn't think Mammoths could ever hold a candle to a well-trained battle horse. Then one day I turned my back on a drunken soldier. His blow never landed; Mi'cha flung the brute over ten meters.
Bred for battle in the Grand Coliseum, these wurms annihilated whole ecosystems when released into the wild.
The trader let loose a laugh that made all around him check their purses.

The end of one life is merely the beginning of thousands more.
"The call came, spell-borne through mortar and stone to the ear of every soldier. The call came, and the advantage was ours."
—Lodusz, captain of the watch
"When one of us prospers, the pride prospers."
—Jazal Goldmane

"The elders say Zendikar has no safe, peaceful places. How would they know? They've never looked."
The loudest and most heartfelt cheers come from the cheap seats.

"Only fools and bandits use roads."


Getting caught was bad enough, but being rolled to the the detention center was by far the worst part.
Foul-tempered, poorly trained, and mule-stubborn, the drake is the perfect test of the master's will.





"Currents are currents, whether in sea or sky."

The Scorpion God's sting sends venom strong enough to poison blood, bone, and spirit.
"Everything in the trial has teeth. You will overcome them, or you will feed them."
—Rhonas, god of strength
All the aether charts in the world can't compete with the trained eye of a talented scout.


To a dryad, every tree in the forest is both a doorway and a window.



"I study bone because that's where truth dwells. One monster knucklebone is wiser than all that damp meat in your head."



"The voice has grown louder, its accusations angrier and more insistent. By morning, it will likely drown out all else. I fear what I will do."
—Letter discovered in an abandoned estate
A throne built on wisdom cannot be toppled.
"The awestruck birds gazed at Wonder. Slowly, timidly, they rose into the air."
—Scroll of Beginnings
"You should have seen the look on *both* their faces."
—Morkamp, Lambholt innkeeper


"Murasan hurdas were too aggressive to tolerate a harness, so we put them on guard duty. Now the bandits can't get within spitting distance of us."
—Bruse Tarl, Goma Fada nomad

One glamer leads him far from home. The next washes away his memory that home was ever anywhere but at her side.
In a culture of beauty, the most beautiful are worshipped as gods.
Nothing escapes a sharp mind.

The Minotaurs of the Hurloon Mountains are known for their love of battle. They are also known for their hymns to the dead, sung for friend and foe alike. These hymns can last for days, filling the mountain valleys with their low, haunting sounds.
It runs an endless circuit along the ruined roads of the soon-to-be-forgotten Mirran civilization.
"How about the power of silent flight? Does that suit your needs, cutthroat?"
—Rivalen Blackhand, proprietor of Sorcerous Sundries

He collects the precious metals, and then converts the rest to propellant.


"You once brought havoc to my home and ruined my mind. I'm here to return the favor, Bolas."

It soon became obvious that some experiments were best overseen by fireproof teachers.
「今もなお、天は彼に従っていたのか、彼を攻撃していたのか、私にはわからない。」
—-ラル・ザレックの研究記録
Flavorful aromas beckon many a salivating maw.
Death turned admirable conviction into pointless intransigence.
"All we know about the Krosan Forest we have learned from those few who made it out alive."
—Elvish refugee
Death is no excuse to stop working.
"The sun can warm your skin or blister it, nurture your crops or wither them, light your path or blind you. She is a fickle friend, but a far worse enemy."
—Nazra of the Stone Havens

"In the afterlife, I'll have no need of sleep. And until then, I have no time for it!"
"Imagine a gigantic pine cone that's extremely territorial and always in a foul mood."
—Zhosmir, urban huntmaster
"No body can contain so much fury. It reminds me of another battle, long past."
—Sarkhan Vol


"The rushing water is as the God-Pharaoh. It encompasses all. It nurtures all."
—Temmet, vizier of Naktamun
"The maaka remain loyal to us in this time of strife. We don't even have to feed them—our enemies do."
—Nedja, Gruul shaman









It eats what it wants to eat—which is anything that moves.


Charging alone takes uncommong daring or uncommon stupidity. Or both.





"He watches from above. He watches from below. He watches from within."
—Inscription on Tel-Jilad, the Tree of Tales


"Every creation carries a piece of its creators. Their knowledge, their dreams, their soul. That is the best part."
"Feeding a normal army is a problem of logistics. With zombies, it is an asset. Feeding is why they fight. Feeding is why they are feared."
—Jadar, ghoulcaller of Nephalia
"Sheath your swords! Cudgels only. I see a new pair of waterproof trek boots slithering away."
—Nablus, North Hada trapper
A good courier travels fast and asks no questions.

The ceiling and the floor fell in love, but only the wall knew.
—Dal saying
In lives that have stretched for centuries, there are bound to be a few awkward silences.
"The union of sea and sky makes a perfect cover."
—Talrand, sky summoner
A hive tyrant's synaptic link is the primary conduit through which the Hive Mind enforces its dominance over a hive fleet's lesser creatures.

Ixidor had only to imagine their ruin and Akroma made it so.



"It is fitting that we meet in the first hour of light, for we are called by the Conclave to pierce a threat of darkness."
"A few drops of this, and the trickiest problems simply melt away."
—Thamaz, Weldfast inventor
"I said 'Put him in a *core set*, not a corset!'"
—Richard Garfield, Ph.D.

There's no rest for a Keldon.


It spilled the blood of one elder dragon. In Gideon's hands, it may yet taste another's.


When asked how much power is required, Izzet mages always answer "more."
His blade carves a path for his people. His words guide them along it.
"Let their horrors and machines come. We will meet them blow for blow."

"I didn't survive that crash just so I could fall to the likes of you."
The barbarians call it "touching the soul of the dragon."
"So large and so quiet—a combination best avoided."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry

Deadly mushrooms litter these woods, each waiting for an errant footstep to release its noxious spores.
"Meat *and* eggs. We eat!"
—Borborygmos

The first explorers found Argoth a storehouse of natural wealth—towering forests grown over rich veins of ore.

Not all heroes die in armor.
"No longer can we allow our human populations to be mindlessly slaughtered by ghouls. Slay all who trespass."
—Runo Stromkirk
Always on trend.
"Sit down and read. Educate yourself for the coming conflicts."
—Mary Harris "Mother" Jones
Valuing scholarship above all else, the inhabitants of the Ivory Tower reward those who sacrifice power for knowledge.
Another piece of a nefarious puzzle.
For devils, burning things is the highest form of comedy, diversion, and artistic expression.


"That would have brought shame to you as a mage. Tell you what—I'll keep your secret."
—Noyan Dar, Tazeem lullmage
On Evos Isle, the swift and formidable aven enforce the will of the ruling sphinxes.
Once heard, the battle song of an angel becomes part of the listener forever.
"Just what I need—more competition."
—Cabal grave robber



Though native to cold climates, the nishoba have adapted to more temperate environments since the Ice Age ended.


Every cry lifts her allies toward the thunder.

Better the cold night than her warm hospitality.
All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.
Even the smallest spark may set a world ablaze.






The body dies in stages. First the skin, then the muscle. The brain is last, much to the victim's dismay.




"No, *you* get the water. I ain't thirsty."
—Squee
Within a mile of the woodland, you will feel her eyes upon you. Within its borders, you will feel her blade.
It pulses with the colors that best complement the wearer's outfit.
Only the most skilled budoka could protect the Okina Shrine. Only the best of these protectors took the night watch.
Mines became common as cities during the days of the artificers.
"Such a lord as this—all virtues' height—Had never been, nor ever was again."
"It's a lifeless ruin of some long-lost race. What is there to fear?"
—Commissar Gadholm

The sunlight falls pristine on the temple at Epityr, softened by the remembered shadows of angelic saviors' wings.
He wanders the land in search of Good Ass.



"Know your foes' strengths as well as their weaknesses."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi machinist
The ancient dragon Imvaernarhro has earned his fiery nickname.
"Humanity has always envied the power of flight. So we took it."
—Scytha, aeromage

Olka collected the evening mist for years, studying its secrets. Once she learned its essence, she could vanish with a thought.
The Tolarian Academies embrace a tradition of study and research while discouraging the kinds of experiments that ruined the original island of Tolaria.
"If the Nantuko only knew what awaits them beyond death, they would abandon all they hold dear."
—Cabal Patriarch

Scholars are uncertain whether it was the actual sound or some other magical property of the elven lyre that transformed its player.
Tall as a tree and probably related.
A soulless husk of endless hunger.
"That which is beautiful in form can also be deadly."
—Ishai, Ojutai dragonspeaker

Just when you thought you'd be safe, in the middle of an open field with no Eldrazi around for miles.



"The fires of invention burn in all of us. I fight for the freedom to unleash those flames."
—Pia Nalaar
Wind time's watch, and watch time unwind.

An eyeblink later, all that remained of the tree-beast was the breeze of its momentum.

Sometimes gestures of support are small. Sometimes not.
The Nightmare arises from its lair in the swamps. As the poisoned land spreads, so does the Nightmare's rage and terrifying strength.
"I can't hear them scream, but at least I don't have to listen to them beg."
—Phage the Untouchable


"Pick a shell upon my shore and put it to your ear. That sound isn't the sea, but the whispers of the fallen."
—Crovax
Its hyperpneumatics can punch through a wall and the spy on the other side.
"I'm up here. You're down there. Now who's the lower life form?"




Out of the blackness and stench of the engulfing swamp emerged a shimmering figure. Only the splattered armor and ichor-stained sword hinted at the unfathomable evil the knight had just laid waste.
Travelers in the Somberwald scan the ground for werewolves and other threats, unaware of what lurks above.
Nature doesn't walk.

"To my sword I owe my glory, but to my shield I owe my life."
—Sarlena, paladin of the Northern Verge







Crude tactics can be effective nonetheless.

"From up here we can drop rocks and arrows and more rocks!" "Uh, yeah boss, but how do we get down?"
"This is our land. We will not allow eyeblights to poison its beauty."


"I'll tell you one thing—it's not nothin'!"
—Garj Grabclaw, goblin sergeant

Silumgar never passes up an opportunity to add to his opulence.
The fatal flaw in every plan is the assumption that you know more than your enemy.
Beyond the chaos of Ghirapur lies a vibrant world where aether flows through nature.
"Vampires have done nothing but take from us. Tonight, we reclaim what's ours!"

"Our unity conquers all fears."

The only thing worse than a minotaur with an axe is an angry minotaur with an axe.
In times when freedom seems lost, great souls arise to reclaim it.




"I will protect the less fortunate. I will love bravely. I will face despair and fight on. As a Capashen, I can do no less."

"Your technique is sloppy, but there is talent there. Do it again, and keep your right arm in position this time."
The idols were forged during the time of the Khanfall, when the dragons came to rule Tarkir and its people aligned themselves with the five dragonlords.
Buy enough balloons and it turns into a ride.




A ghoulcaller's playground.
"But no one heard the snake's gentle hiss for peace over the elephant's trumpeting of war."
—Afari, *Tales*



"It is not just our people I try to rescue. It is our culture, and our hope that we can return to greatness."

In an ironic bit of evolution, the megatog's dozens of teeth are mainly ornamental. It prefers swallowing things whole.


Hail from Tolaria the ever changing 'Dane.
A lifetime of keeping up appearances is not enough to earn an eternity of rest.
"Joining this army is easy, boy. Just survive your first battle."



Out of the blackness and stench of the engulfing swamp emerged a shimmering figure. Only the splattered armor and ichor-stained sword hinted at the unfathomable evil the Knight had just laid waste.
"Shar's will shall be done. As sure as night will fall."

Elmut had slaughtered vampires, slain werewolves, and destroyed hordes of zombies. Sadly, he never got over his fear of spiders.
Some display their trophies at the Hall of Mechanists. Others display their talent in the streets of Ghirapur.
The pattern of life can be studied like a book, if you know how to read it.

My thunder comes before the lightning; my lightning comes before the clouds; my rain dries all the land it touches. What am I?
—Femeref riddle
"Through me, the Great Teacher's voice will rattle this world."
Its territory is defined by wherever it is at the moment.

Rarely seen, hardly heard, never caught.




"Right now, in these first moments of creation, it is simultaneously nothing and everything."
Marhault Elsdragon follows a strict philosophy, never letting emotions cloud his thoughts. No chance observer could imagine the rage in his heart.
The hound sniffed the air and let slip a low growl. General Takeno looked down at the faithful Isamaru and calmed him with a touch. "Alert the men. The kami are coming."
"Maybe they wanted to be on the winning side for once."
—Matoc, lavamancer




Progress comes at a price.
This storm blows gales through the dreams of men.



These days, some wizards are finding that they have a little too much spell left at the end of their mana.


"The hypocrisy of these elves is thicker than steel—destroying 'unnatural metal' with their own enchanted swords."
—Kara Vrist, Neurok agent


Some spectators love an underdog, but others are just as happy to support a proven winner.
Keldon soldiers learn to move faster than the whip.
"The injury was being caught between this world and our own; the insult was to find walls within."
—Lyna, Soltari emissary
The upside to not thinking about the consequences is that you'll always surprise those who do.
Every story, even a faerie tale, comes to an end.

"In Barrin's name!" cried Lyna as Hanna's sword passed through her, "Ertai sends word that the portal is open—but not for long!"





"To spend your life seeking, only to find regret upon achieving . . . this is the most delicious irony of all."
—Leshrac, Walker of Night
Heroes act without thought of glory or reward. Accolades are a consequence, not a goal.
"You cannot possibly know the toll your alliances will exact from you."
—Barrin, to Urza
There is power in prayer, regardless of who is listening.

At what price beauty?
"The key to winning any fight is simply staying alive."
—The Southern Paladin
Ob Nixilis extends his hand not in partnership, but to affirm your subservience.

Nature doesn't walk.






Gods can be appeased. Demons, however . . .
Flumphs siphon thoughts and energy from evil aberrations, and are often eager to share the dark knowledge they obtain with friendly adventurers.

"The world is already run by all manner of machines. One day, they'll remind us of that fact."
—Sargis Haz, artificer

The Astrotorium adds new attractions almost as fast as Captain Nebula can crash them into asteroids.

The city of Ghirapur is a living thing, and living things defend themselves.
Survival itself is no small reward.
"You call it luck. I call it preparation."
Hidetsugu never relinquished a grudge. He let it burn within him, gathering ever greater intensity until the final moment of vengeance.
Water calls to water, and the world is left exhausted and withered in its wake.
If bribery and intimidation fail, Marchesa turns to her favorite form of bureaucracy.

Jhoira stumbled upon an ally, not just a good source of spare parts.



"Most compete for insects at street level. Some dwell near Izzet laboratories and ride the thermal updrafts."
—Yolov, Simic bioengineer
"She spoke of mystery and portent, of such unfathomable things that my mind screamed for pity."
—*The Seer's Parables*

Hunters lure the stripling boar into the open, hoping to trap greater prey.

The desecration of their dead makes even the Saprazzans careless.


"Sun follows Moon until she tires, then carries her until she's strong / and runs ahead of him again."
—"Love Song of Night and Day"

The best way to calm a rampaging ceratok is to wait until it dies of natural causes.
Vedalken eyes don't see the beauty in things. They see only what those things can teach.


"Don't worry. I'm not going to deprive you of all your secrets. Just your most precious one."
—Liliana Vess


"When the Hour of Promise arrives, the God-Pharaoh will tear down the Hekma, for its protection will be needed no longer."
—*The Accounting of Hours*

The communal mind produces a savage strategy, yet no one could predict that this vicious crossbreed would unravel the secret of steel.





"I have faith in your potential."

"These fiends are slightly less tolerable than you."
"A sentiment that warms my heart, sister."
Ever since the disaster, the city's survivors viewed the star-strewn sky with dread.

"We always look upon our first creations as masterpieces, no matter how awful they are."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator
The Onakke were masters of dark arts and artifice. Their creations continue to spread foul magic, paving the way for their return.


"I do things in my own time."
—Etha, initiate of Rhet crop

"Take their faces. The lips of these unbelievers may yet honor the Demonlord."
"A true warrior fights with whatever's handy."
—Qerk of the Secret Warren

Both Wu and Wei warships patrolled the Yangtze River, the natural border between the two kingdoms.

"Great art can never be created without great suffering."




Adepts of the Riverwheel Stronghold can run through rain and never get wet; masters use the raindrops as stepping stones.
Nature abhors a lot of things.




"Swords cannot reach far enough. Chains cannot strike hard enough. An eternal dilemma, but a simple one."



"This sliver comes into the world a perfect predator. It's ready to hunt and devour its first meal within seconds of hatching."
—Rukarumel, field journal
"Let your heels point you home."
—Ancient blessing




A power vacuum for the Azorius. A keepsake for Vraska.
Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.




"Every evil destroyed is a strike against the enemy."
—Erold, Gatstaf springsage
"Human tenderness is simply weakness in a pretty package."


"Sympathy is for weaklings. Whoever survives, wins."
—Benzir, archdruid of Temple Might


"If it were merely lethal, that would be sufficient. The art, however, is in maximizing the suffering it causes."
—Liliana Vess

"Rage courses in every heart, yearning to betray its rational prison."
—Sarkhan Vol

"I prefer loyalty to be a matter of respect, not of magic. But one does what one must."
—Kaalia of the Vast
Before the zealots of the Ethersworn came to power, Esper illusionists dreamed up creations to mimic a variety of substances.
"The fatal flaw in every plan is the assumption that you know more than your enemy."
—Volrath


The paradise of Amrou Haven had become a field of cinders. Its people struggled to survive, hoping to see visions of its past in the strange storms that quickly passed.

"O to be a dragon . . . of silkworm size or immense . . ."
—Marianne Moore, "O to Be a Dragon"

"It was difficult to tell whether the piles of gore within their warrens were mere trash heaps, sacred altars, or warnings."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV*


"When the rampaging kami at Reito had crushed the opposing militia, swarms of minor kami swept over the battlefield to consume all that remained."
—*Great Battles of Kamigawa*
Nature's arms encircle all who are willing to draw close.



"This world will be ruled by its rightful sovereigns, not these hideous pretenders."


Spring follows winter
—Elvish expression meaning "all things pass"

"There's very little that escapes me, Greven. And you will escape very little if you fail."
—Volrath
"Who'd want to ignite things one at a time?"
—Chandra Nalaar
After a battle, it breaks the hillsides into manageable pieces to prepare for next time.
"Monsters dwell in every heart. We only think civilization tames them." ―Euphemia, Nexus watcher
Forsake flesh. Choose fire.
The Eldrazi twisted in a direction that had no name, and a frontal assault became a panicked rout.
"This city will perish, and the Gruul will cheer as the boar-god crushes the last bricks into dust."
—Nikya of the Old Ways

"Family plots are so convenient."
—Cabal Patriarch
Each commander looked at the others and wondered who would be first to break the alliance.
"Give me a crew like this one and I'd rule any sea I sailed."
—Angrath
Centuries ago, Shizo was a verdant field of wildflowers. After 891 samurai died in a single battle on its grasses, it became a haunted moor.

"It's hard to hurt anyone when you're as transparent as your motives."
—Ertai, wizard adept
"Beg me for life, and I will fill you with the glory of Phyrexian perfection."

"A river of lava is just another river to cross."

A weapon forged for every hand.
"Species XR17 feeds upon the mental energies of its victims. This explains why the goblins remain unaffected."
—Riptide Project researcher
"For glory! For justice! For our queen!"




"The Second Sun nears its destination! Let it light the way to ours!"
"In the face of every one I see the Baron."
—Daria

"My ancestor Toshiro used to say, 'Life is a series of choices between bad and worse.' I'm a master of making great bad choices."

Immolation is the sincerest form of flattery.

It's hard to be humble when the whole world is bite-size.
Iname revels in sadistic glee at the crushing of souls, but soon mourns the lives so cruelly cut short. So the cycle begins anew.

Gruul shamans believe all sentient beings have the soul of savagery inside them, an animal form clawing to escape.

That which endures, survives.

Lives taken are lives not easily forgotten.
Greenweaver Mina and her twin brother Denn lead the last of the Mul Daya into an uncertain future.
The ohran viper is not cold-blooded. Its veins course with the same antigelid venom used to kill its prey.

"Let me give you a taste of the poison you've poured into our land."
—Shigeki, founder of the Order of Jukai
"Avacyn has abandoned us! We have nothing left except what we can take!"


"It is not punishment. I am simply making things as they should be."
—Sephara, Sky's Blade



Forged by divine hands to wander mortal realms.






"As usual, there will be time for prayer only *after* the worst happens."
—Orim, Samite healer
Shintan sensed the malice in his opponent, but he did not strike until the orc's muscles tensed in preparation to throw the first punch.


"Nicely done, Jace. You always were good at disappearing acts."
—Liliana Vess
"Watch for it! Right on its tailfeathers will be a storm from your nightmares."
—Arna Kennerüd, Skycaptain
Under his rule, there is but one creed: Chaos shall reign.


Big ones hunt the elves, so the elves hunt the small ones to keep them from getting big.

Uncertainty has its own allure.




The wise always keep an ear open to the whispers of power.
They cut the stitches and give her sips of her brew. Then they sew her up again, and she's back to stirring.
For some creatures, existing is only a whim.

"Her voice is insight, piercing and true."
—Ixidor, reality sculptor


They dive screaming on defensive lines, sowing chaos before the main assault begins.

Bits of the missing agent were discovered in various alleys across all three boroughs.




Freyalise bought the planeswalkers the time they needed by clearing a path through the misshapen hell of Phyrexia.

As renegade forces closed in on the Aether Spire, Consulate blockades failed one by one.
Honorable in battle, generous in death.
—Motto of the Kjeldoran Royal Guard

It would be unfortunate if the key fell into the wrong hands.
Forged by divine hands to wander mortal realms.


The biggest difference between a victory and a massacre is which side you're on.



"The monks of the North Tree rarely saw their kodama until the Kami War, when it woke like a slumbering, angry bear."
—"Poem of the Five Trees"

"Cut the beasts out from under them and their strength is nothing."
—Vona of Iedo, Butcher of Magan
"My eyes are my strongest feature."

"Take their dead, and entomb them in the snow. Risen, they shall serve a new purpose."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer


Sharpen your ears
—Elvish expression meaning "grow wiser"
From trinket to trauma.
"The skirges screech along with the bone saw. It makes a terrible racket, but they seem to enjoy it."
—Keskit, the Flesh Sculptor

The first sliver burst against the cave wall, and others piled in behind to deepen the new tunnel.

It's not the two heads you should fear. It's the four fangs.





"Goblins bred underground, their numbers hidden from the enemy until it was too late."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV*

Long after death, the spirits of the Disowned continue to seek redemption among their Abzan kin.
It suddenly dawned on Jorin that farming was quite a noble profession.

The slag-workers wasted no time in creating their own flare pulses to cleanse the area of the *incompleat*.
A scorpion this big you won't find curled up in your boot. Maybe *around* your boot, but not *in* it.

"Eri phar phesta . . . um, phistor . . . er, phistara . . ."








"Let them have their revel. Soon those who won't submit will be turned. Those who won't be turned will die."
—Vorinclex, Voice of Hunger


Do the candleguides' heads turn to follow you as you pass, or is it merely a trick of the flickering light?

The Roil redraws the world as it passes, leaving only the hedrons unchanged.
Its wings are a heavenly inferno that sets the world ablaze.


Both guide and guard on open plain.
One injustice starts a thousand riots. One law stops a thousand crimes.
—Lawbringer creed


"If I wanted your opinion, I'd have told you what it was."
—Pemmin, Riptide survivor
Heavy light flooded across the landscape, cloaking everything in deep crimson.
To gain audience with the hegemon, one must bring a riddle she has not heard.
From every shadow came the dull scratch of teeth on bones.

Relentless as the tides, souls dark as a moonless night. Bloodshed on their minds, and greed burning in their hearts like molten gold.


"Just take a little off the top."




To serve the god of death, Narfi forfeited the warmth of life.

Elves believe the hydra-god Progenitus sleeps beneath Naya, feeding on forgotten magics.
"As long as its roots still reach the soil, I can heal it."
"Any oaf can conquer a kingdom. It takes true power to conquer time."
—Shai Fusan, archmage





Even death cannot diminish the persistence of the knights of Locthwain.
"I sing to the branches, and they reach to the sky. I sing to the leaves, and they open to the sun. I sing to the roots, and they dig their fingers deep. I sing the song that creation sung."
Only nature wreaks such lovely havoc.
Each flower identical, every leaf and petal disturbingly exact.

"Let's add just a bit more stopping power."


"I've had my adventures. All I wish now is to sit in peace and speak with the pines."
It's true that two heads are better than one, but after that you run into diminishing returns.

Etherium does not know sleep. Only magic can teach it the resting state of cold steel.
It turns the adversity of the moment into the knowledge of a lifetime.
"I have my faith, and I have my prayers. But if push comes to shove, I've also got a little something extra."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran Priest
The aurochs herd is content to graze—until the bull provides the dissenting urge to charge.
"I'll take it from here, soldier."
The penultimate step of the ritual involves bathing in a delicious glaze.
Oh, I'm sorry—did I break your concentration?
"Whoever thought of making mobile volcanoes was a genius."
—Chandra Nalaar
Deadly mushrooms litter these woods, each waiting for an errant footstep to release its noxious spores.
The Consulate keeps watch at each of the eleven bridges to ensure that the market remains a haven for commerce, not for con artists.
There's plenty to talk about in the marketplaces of Ravnica, be it the latest feud between guilds or the terrible weather.

"Those who think the trees shall remain bystanders throughout this conflict shall be sorely mistaken."
—Sutina, Speaker of the Tajuru

A band of Temur hunters, fleeing the Mardu, dug a hideout beneath such a creature as it slept. The horde found them and attacked. For three days the Temur held them at bay, and all the while the great beast slumbered.
The Ogre philosopher Gnerdel believed the purpose of life was to live as high on the food chain as possible. She refused to eat vegetarians, and preferred to live entirely on creatures that preyed on sentient beings.

Its fangs are in your flesh before its hiss leaves your ears.



"The curse is broken."
It's hard to argue with a force made of divine will.


Ravnica's most ancient streets take on a life of their own. A few have decided to move to nicer neighborhoods.

Its fiery visitation burns away the fog of war and dissipates the ties of loyalty.
Nothing is funnier to a devil than setting someone—anyone—on fire.
Sanctuaries harnessed the glowstones' natural reaction to monsters to create a warning system.
"I will be the ancestor my descendants call upon for aid. On that day I will take up my sword for my family once more."

In a space where there is no room, in a structure that was never built, meets the guild that doesn't exist.






You'll never get a Keldon's goat.
A raptor will follow any order as long as that order is "hunt," "kill," or "go for the guts."



"Starving an army that feeds on its enemies is a sound strategy."
—Garza Zol, plague queen
"May you be a stalker's dream."
—Urborg curse

After the Battle of Pharagax Bridge, the Champion spent many months among the leonin of Oreskos. She found that they were quick to take offense, not because they were thin-skinned, but because they were always eager for a fight.
—*The Theriad*
It is the moment of discovery, the triumph of the mind, the reimagining of past glory.
Many necromancers share the same last words—the ones that conclude the undeath ritual.
With clarity of vision comes clarity of function.

They could agree on one thing only: one of them must die.
Don't insult a Talruum unless your mount is swift.
—Suq'Ata saying




The Simic use the claws as scalpels, while the Rakdos use them for tattooing and torture. The Gruul use them to pick their teeth after lunching on the rest of the carcass.
Some timelines forever fray, branch, and intermingle. Others end abruptly.


"Potions! Mana potions, health potions, energy potions—get your potions here!"
"If you threaten its territory, it produces spores. Actually, no matter what you do, it produces spores."
—Hadi Kasten, Calla Dale naturalist
"The sky isn't falling—it's being thrown at us!"
—Otak, Tin Street shopkeep

Saltfield nomads call a sudden storm a "whitemane."
Most came to Ghirapur for the Fair. Gremlins came for the feast.
Every tear shed is a drop of immortality.
"I have seen the horrors Kaervek has freed. My betrayal is certain—but of Kaervek or of Jamuraa, I cannot say."
—Jolrael
He keeps the heat off his allies—by drawing it all to himself.




"Our glorious infection has taken hold."
—Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite

Suddenly, all the haggling didn't seem so important.


"Whoever summoned that thing had better confess right this moment, or the whole class will be cleaning the ink receptacles for a month!"
Morning's mists can hide many things.

A searing light that spares only the chosen.
Zhao Zilong was a brave and noble warrior. Twice he rescued Liu Bei's son, Liu Shan.
"We camped near the Sokenzan Mountains. Though I know its inhabitants are sparse, I hear cries coming from the highest peaks every night, as if the mountains themselves bellow for vengeance."
—Lost Battalion, message to General Takeno


"There is much to learn here, but few can endure the ringing of the spires."
—Nulakam the Archivist
"We fight not out of fear, but for honor."
"Defy me and I will burn the flesh from your bones. Betray me and I will steal the breath from your lungs."
After drownings, devourings, and one highly unpleasant algae infestation, unsupervised portal use on campus was banned.

Past, present, and future surged through the wizard's mind, bringing a flood of possibilities.
"Always a welcome sight breaking through the clouds."
—Talrand, sky summoner
Ask a merfolk even a simple question and the answer is a journey far beyond the known.
"When the wielder is strong enough, any sword will do."
—Kresh the Bloodbraided

There goes the neighborhood!
The only sound was the gentle clicking of the Faeries' wings. Then those intruders who were still standing turned and fled. One thing was certain: they didn't think the Scryb were very funny anymore.

A loyal crew sticks together, even after death.



As the battle for Orazca unfolded, the contenders discovered that others had already staked a claim.

"There are as many pillows of illusion as flakes in a snow-storm. We wake from one dream into another dream."
—Ralph Waldo Emerson, "Illusions"

Which is worse—the sleep which never ends or that which never comes?
Diluted, moonglove can etch living tissue. Concentrated, a drop will kill a giant.

"The Demonlord has ruled every age. Every ruin, myth, and nightmare proves his power."
—"Rite of Belzenlok"

You don't want to know how she got that name.
Many master samurai make pilgrimages deep into the Sokenzan Mountains, where they train and meditate in silence, hoping to commune with a lava kami.
"The tools of evil are mere things. And like all things, they cannot last forever."
—*Song of All*, canto 881
It felt the rumblings of war and uncoiled itself from the depths of the world.
"Some have said there is no subtlety to destruction. You know what? They're dead."
—Jaya Ballard, task mage
It can chop down a redwood in a single stroke. Your sternum isn't going to fare any better.
"On the field of honor, a soldier need have no fear."

There was a farmer, had a hound . . .


Where its feet tread, the thunder of many others will follow.
She speaks only in whispers but can be heard over the fiercest storm.
Sorin had created Avacyn, so it was a cruelty beyond imagining, a pain beyond description, that it fell upon him to end her forever.
Trapped in Immersturm, it bloodies its blade not for ideals or territory or power, but simply to pass the time.

Water is life. Or perhaps it is just something to wash it down with.
"Enough warm-up. I'm coming for you, Sheoldred!"

It's easy to be two steps ahead when you can see their every thought.

"No matter how adept our artistic skill, our effigies can never hope to capture the vibrant beauty of a living elf. Perhaps that is truly why we mourn."

Baby dragons can't figure out humans—if they didn't want to be killed, why were they made of meat and treasure?

He's boss because he's smart enough to get out of the way.
"The efreet is a striding storm with a voice that crackles like fire."
—Qhattib, Vizier of Amiqat
"Don't tell me who sent you or who you work for. The less I know, the better."

"My home calls to me, I must go."
It spilled the blood of one elder dragon. In Gideon's hands, it may yet taste another's.

Gideon and Nissa carved a path through the Eldrazi swarm, and their Zendikari allies charged into the fray behind them.
A knight's devotion to their steed goes only so far.

For each one you see, ten see you.

"I thought of fate as an iron lattice, intricate but rigidly unchangeable. That was until some force bent fate's bars to spare my life."
—Ilromov, traveling storyteller
It readily attacks much larger prey, knowing retaliation is impossible.


"You are beneath contempt. Your lineage will be forgotten."
"The trouble with youths these days is that, in outright defiance of their elders, they refuse to be bought."
—Karlov of the Ghost Council
The Golgari don't bury their dead. They plant them.

"You see, stalac-*tites* grow down from the ceiling, while stalag-*mites* reach—AAHHHHHHHHH—"
"Kalitas may have returned to mindless servitude beneath the Eldrazi, but we say never again."
—Drana, Kalastria bloodchief
Not all of Terisiare's flooding was natural . . . .


Like corpse-worms through a carapace, rotwurms slide through the hollowed bones of the undercity.
To some, desecration. To Gix, decoration.



"Thread the torsos together with angel hair to ensure they will cooperate in battle."
—*The Stitcher's Tome*
The symbols are spread throughout Aphetto, marking sites where minions of the Raven Guild and the Cabal can seek refuge.

Emphatic words with powerful gestures. Clearly this was playtime.
"Our forces number more than the leaves of Vitu-Ghazi. Do not provoke us."
The surest way to lose your holdings is to plead for them in Mercadia City's courts.

"There's more where that came from!"
When Kaya saved her village, Berit realized even vampires could be killed. When she brought one down herself, she realized she had found her calling.







Long thought to be extinct, flocks of gryffs reappeared with Avacyn's return.

A mystery in metal.
Since they guard armies of walking carrion, Sultai aven are never far from a meal.
"It helps you pass the time until you die."
—Grandmother Sengir
"The partisans have unearthed a strange artifact. None know its origin, but it gives them hope of a life beyond."
—Elspeth's journal
It keeps the upper reaches of the forest free of every menace . . . except for the spider itself.

"Cherish these last moments. Though your miserable life has come to nothing, I have given it a magnificent end."
Not the foulest or bloodiest act at Rix Maadi by a stretch.




No screams rang out. No blood stained the streets. In an instant, the bustling metropolis simply fell silent.


She can heal the flesh, or exploit its many weaknesses.

Mood: Unrestrained violence in a festival atmosphere.

Just as the evil ones approached to slay Justina, she cast a great spell, imbuing her weapons with her own life force. Thus she fulfilled the prophecy: "In the death of your savior will you find salvation."
When it passes, storm clouds bolt across the land.
The hardest of wizards can have the softest of minds.
"In this line of work, you've got to know how to squirrel things away. Quite literally, in my case."


Nirkana assassins craft incurable concoctions by mixing basilisk marrow and deathwillow sap with the vital fluids of a dozen other poisonous species.
"Your part in this fight is done, vampire. Get used to your thirst."
"Those who fear the darkness have never seen what the light can do."
—Selenia, dark angel



"Delicate resonance detectors could scan the assembly lines for metallic impurities, loose bolts, and freak occurrences of sentience."
—Tawnos, proposal for overseer prototype

The shaman looked at the world through Ghalta's eyes and understood that everything else was his prey.
"You say Saprazzo is a city built on water? I hope they have enough to wash the dust from my throat."
—Sisay

"Surely it won't notice if I take—"
—Theria the Sly, last words
Magic, unlike physics, has no unbreakable laws.

A strong leader means a growing pack.

"A good explorer has to be as slippery as a gomazoa, as tough as a scute bug, and luckier than a ten-fingered trapfinder."
—Arhana, Kazandu trapfinder

"It is as if this world has been expecting our blessings."
—Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite
Amid this whirling hurricane of blades, there is no calm eye in which the hapless can find shelter.




"I'm amused by wasted effort when it's not my own."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator


"...There was no trace/ Of aught on that illumined face..." —Samuel Coleridge, "Phantom"



"Darius?"
"Yeah?"
"There's a goblin sneaking up on you."
"So?"
"Just sayin'."
Relentless as the sea, remorseless as death.
"I am heir to many treasures. None is as precious as knowing how my ancestor lived her life."


"Only a mind unfettered with the concerns of the flesh can see the world as it truly is."

Protection is woven into every vine and branch.

"Innistrad's ghoulcallers are talented enough, but let me show you what someone with real power can create."
—Liliana Vess

From the perpetual shadowsmoke that hung above the ship, a silent form emerged, lips curled with malice and anticipation.


They feared each other for their differences but were absolutely terrified at their similarities.


Giving little thought to their own defense, they carried the flag that united their army.

All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.
"Ghoulcallers trying to get in, geists trying to get out . . . . This duty is never dull."
"When in doubt, kill 'em twice."

"We've endured your slights to Gaea with the grace of tolerance. Now behold the grace of our ferocity."









No matter where you find them, goblins love rocks.


"My secret ingredient? Well, I can't tell you that. But here's a hint. It's not love."
The battle was over, but the carnage continued for days.

"My tales of war are the stories most asked for around the fires at night, but they're the ones I care least to tell."
"Though tempered differently, all wills can be broken."
—Inquisitor Kyrik
Conjured from the bowels of hell, the fiery wall forms an impassable barrier, searing the soul of any creature attempting to pass through its terrible bursts of flame.



Within without.


"The world is a puzzle, and the mind is its key."

"In Rath," the priest said, "there is even greater need for prayer."



Everything comes to the waterfront eventually, on the tide or on credit.

"Unworthy of consecration."
—Axsh, lesser cenobite
"Soldiers win battles, but supplies win wars."
—Kadri, Abzan caravan master




It has the run of the swamps, and it knows it.


"A night attack will be easy. We'll make an air raid over the Akrasan border. Just get me some flint to light the war torches."
"If our former masters would have us kneel again, they shall feel our defiance slashed across their membranes."
"Why do you weep for the dead? I rejoice, for they have died for me."
The Locust God's children were numberless, relentlessly eating away every trace of the city's protection.

More than heat and the strength of his arm, it was his faith that gave the blade its unyielding edge.
Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.

"The smiths of this land must be mad to reach so far and so high for another creature to decorate."
—Cagen Vargan, Jhessian sea scout

Memories cut from the mind can cut right back.
The ogre's mind snapped. The bow was next. The archer followed quickly after.
"Nature is more merciless than any hunter I've ever known."
—Zai, nightsquad captain
"While the sea may be our home, the sky is our destiny."
—Prime Speaker Zegana
"If you do it right, they'll never know what hit them."
—General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox


No earthly armor is protection against this sweetness.

"In the waning moments of war, humanity's most ancient ancestors return. But whose side shall they make their own?"
—Isao, Enlightened Bushi
The touch of Serra's angels bears hopes aloft and empowers noble causes.

"Plans evolved within the tent decide a victory 1,000 li away."
Other Phyrexians have nightmares about the gargantua.

"Any Cadian who can't field-strip their own lasgun by age ten was born on the wrong planet."
—Anonymous


Funny how money and war travel so well together.

Cephalids shrink from the harsh glare of scrutiny.



Unlike their cousins, Rathi basilisks turn their victims into puddles of flowstone.
Locthwain knights take pride in being the last ones standing in a fight or on a dance floor.

Art is unknown to the vedalken—for them, all creations must serve a purpose.
"The end is justified in being mean. Or something like that."
"Hope shall be the blade that severs our bonds."



The town stands on his ancestors' former burial grounds. Even with the graves long gone, he continues his determined vigil.

Some will sacrifice everything for but a taste of power.




The Kargan tribes share legends of the victory their ancestors won over the Akoum Skyclave, and its horrendous cost.
"I like to think Kytheon keeps watch over all of us."
Some convictions are so strong that the world must break to accommodate them.






You know that hiexel bark produces a lot of smoke when burned, but why would Rilsa Rael need so much of it?






"Sometimes the grave does not wait for death before relishing its feast of flesh and bones."
—Ezrith, druid of the Dark Hours
"What is mana but possibility, an idea not yet given form?"
—Jhoira, master artificer

"The best moments are worth reliving."
"Father of Machines! Your filigree gaze carves us, and the scars dance upon our grateful flesh."
—*Phyrexian Scriptures*


Gremlins can change from pest to problem to plague in the span of a moment.
"It came on as quickly as taking in a breath of air. Cathars who had fought shoulder to shoulder were at each other's throats. They were not themselves."
—Halmig, Order of Saint Traft



"Why keep such trinkets? They only add weight to your travels."

"Why fight the body when you can dominate the mind that rules it?"
—Jace Beleren

"I bring a flood that nothing can withstand."
Whatever it is searching for, it will stop at nothing to find it.



There are some shadows that even the Dimir fear.

To be counted among the warriors of Setessa's Leina Tower, you must not fear death, only failure.




"I lead, destruction follows."
Elves know where to harvest the best of the forest, for they planted it themselves.
"All matter, animate or not, rots when exposed to time. We merely speed up the process."
—Ezoc, Golgari rot farmer
"Mists are carefree. They drift where they will, unencumbered by rocks and river beds."
—Thrasios, triton hero

"River and sea, jungle and sky. Water flows freely between the two halves of the world. We are creatures of the water."
—Shaper Tuvasa
"Adi Thandray's angel is a Priority One confiscation from the Fair. Once you see it, you'll understand why."
—Confiscation directive
"Ah, again it does not bode well for you."


Just one can feed a dozen people for a month.
"What size advantage? They never even see me coming."




The Temur see themselves as a pack, their bonds more primal than the Abzan's.



"Ideas drift like petals on the wind. I have only to lift my face to the breeze."
"Industry without artistry is just a fancy way to fill the junkyard."
"Oft have I wished to undo past deeds, but never did I imagine they would be undone for me."
—Naimah, Femeref philosopher

Poorly trained griffins sometimes attack the noble audiences that gather to watch their progress.
Choose your battles carefully. For example, avoid the big guy.



Abandoned at birth, the giant was raised by goats. Ironically, it grew up to be the most cautious member of the herd.




"Tonight, we can be anything."
"Give me wings to fly and speed to strike. In return, the glory I earn shall be yours."
—Steinar Icefist, Balduvian Shaman
"None may pass . . . for free."
"If you've been at this as long as I have, nothing can surprise you. That's the hope, at least."
No ripples, no splashes, no warning.
"Mystic shadow, bending near me, / Who art thou? / Whence come ye?"
—Stephen Crane, "Mystic shadow, bending near me"

The hymn's melody has persisted since Tourach's time, but the words changed to invoke the phobias of each listener.
"These bumping cars remind me of the time your amusement park smashed into my planet."
—Ambassador Blorpityblorpboop
"It had a mouth like that of a great beast, and gnashed its teeth as it strained to reach us. I am thankful it possessed no means of locomotion."
—Vervamon the Elder
". . . a decreased duration of synodic months would be most welcome. Also . . ."


"Hold up your spears. And try not to look like food."
—Tarsa, Sea Gate sell-sword
Once guarded by the Knights of the Reliquary, the tower stands now protected only by its own remoteness, its dusty treasures open to plunder by anyone.
Those who bring nothing to the temple take nothing away.


In the Legion, no flagpole is merely decorative, and every ceremonial sword bears an edge.


In times of unrest, the crowd is eager for the comfort of strong convictions.
Valuing scholarship above all else, the inhabitants of the Ivory Tower reward those who sacrifice power for knowledge.

"There's no contract to sign, no oath to swear. The enlistment procedure is to unsheathe your sword and point it at the enemy."
After his death, the general was reunited with fallen soldiers from over thirty of his campaigns.



"A thick fog obscures the port of Leor, but it's not thick enough to muffle the screams."
—Admiral Beckett Brass




"Some goblins are expendable. Some are impossible to get rid of. But he's both—at the same time!"
—Starke



It strikes at your soul, heedless of your prayers.
To most, the Nido Sanctuary is an office complex. To the Brokers, it's a vault of secrets.

"Folks 'round here are too in love with their contraptions. Does them some good if we smash one every so often."

"Curse Reveka, and curse her coddled conjurers. Their sorcerers' school shall yet be ours."
—Irini Sengir
"We must all make sacrifices for the good of Innistrad."
—Sorin Markov


"So great is its power, only the chosen can wield it and live."
—Avram Garrisson, Leader of the Knights of Stromgald

Unlike previous conflicts, the war between Urza and Mishra made Dominia itself a casualty of war.


The more you look at it, the more dangerous it becomes.

Tocasia brushed the gears and cogs from the table. There, before two wide-eyed brothers, she began a lesson on raw elemental magic.



"Buy something or get out."


"We will defend the Worldsoul from Izzet 'progress' at any cost."
Anyone can destroy a continent. Few have the vision to rebuild one.

"Meat sustains the body. The spirit requires different sustenance."
—Arel the Whisperer

"Is the maze itself a phantom? Or is one as real as the other? Perhaps I am as mad as the dragon."
—Jace Beleren, journal




"Entrance is free. Donations are required."
—Notice outside Vizkopa Bank
"When your cities and trinkets crumble, only nature will remain."
—Garruk Wildspeaker
Sleep doesn't always mean rest.
All but the gods fear the scorpion's sting.
It fears no sword and leaves no bones behind.
Vark decided to lie down and think of a good excuse to quit working.
Heartwood brings peace in great symphonies where dryads conduct the trees through every note.
Structures built from darksteel yield to neither assault nor age.


As the Simic released more of their krasis experiments, they required new habitats, always at the expense of the locals.
Her mind was quite gone, yet she spoke nothing but truth.
Where the holy light of the angels has shone, only purity remains.

The experiments decided to perform some research of their own.
"There are moments when I feel I could fly like the sunwing. Far away I would soar, but always a golden gale pushes me back."
—Huatli
"Lord Rankle will see you now—all he asks is a small token of tribute."
"Where the roots reach, there the temple rises."
—Niszka, Selesnya evangel


It is all too easy to disturb the Blessed Sleep.

The drive to hunt and feed is raw instinct for dinosaurs. The trick is simply to channel it in the right direction.
It was not the minotaur's shoulders but his soul that bore the heaviest weight.
Deep in the Northern Mountains, the yaks linger silently, channeling the powers of the earth.

Three moggs, one treasure, too bad.
Deep within the Cabal's vault, the Mirari pulsed like a dead sun—and its darkness radiated across Otaria.




Doors, walls, skulls . . . it matters not. All barriers will be broken.


"Wood is wasted in the dirt."
—Orcish proverb
"The living are born small and weak. The dead rise ready to serve. The choice is obvious."
—Gisa, ghoulcaller of Gavony

"Arcum is a babbling fool! Phyrexian technology is our greatest blessing. Take this delightful trinket for instance . . ."
—Heidar, Rimewind master

Most human scholars believe that Merfolk are the survivors of sunken Atlantis, humans adapted to the water. Merfolk, however, believe that humans sprang forth from Merfolk who adapted themselves in order to explore their last frontier.
"Kjeldorans should rule supreme, and to the rest, death!"
—Avram Garrisson, Leader of the Knights of Stromgald
"I pray that I am never considered useless or old."
—Sharuum the Hegemon

The lights in the cavern glow and fade, glow and fade in a rhythm that must have a deeper meaning, if only you can figure it out.
Its roots are equally happy to drink the water of a clear stream or the oily blood of a Phyrexian warrior.
"In this world, it's kill or be killed. I'd rather not be the latter."
They make terrible pets . . . unless you don't like your other pets.
The form of the sigil is just as important as the sigil itself. If it's carried on a medallion, its bearer is a master. If it's tattooed on the body, its bearer is a slave.





"The curse is broken."
Selûne guides her devotees with majestic wisdom and grace.
In the cold corridors of the undercity, misinformation unfurls from Duskmantle like a spreading stain.
"Our victories will protect a thousand generations."

Once he fought to save Mirrodin. Now he fights to remake it.
"Of course it offered you power. Demons always do. But trust me—the sweeter the prize, the more ruinous the price."
—Professor Onyx
The weapons deployed to drive the Traitor Legions into the Eye of Terror were so destructive that some planets still have not recovered.


"Tell me, Muse, of that man, so ready at need, who wandered far and wide."
—Homer, *The Odyssey*


If bribery and intimidation fail, Marchesa turns to her favorite form of persuasion.

"These lowlands were formed thousands of years ago by the behemoth Indath—its final footsteps before vanishing into the sea."
—*Tales of the Ozolith*

"A blade is not fully forged until it is given."
"The devils use fire. Why shouldn't we?"
No part goes to waste.

The Chirurgeons patched up their fallen comrades with a gruesome mix of twisted limbs and mangled flesh.
"Life, struck sharp on death, Makes awful lightning."
—Elizabeth Barrett Browning,
"Aurora Leigh"
The cube's surface is pockmarked with jagged runes that seem to shift when unobserved.

It rarely moves, standing stock still in its clearing. When it does stir, ravens stop their cawing and crickets their chirping. All of nature watches in awed silence.

Paradoxically, to tilt the massive jug for a sip, you'd need the energy of the giant's tonic.

Rayne once made several unkind comparisons between the bird's naked opportunism and Urza's.


"The essence of every world, every spell, and every thought is power. Nothing else matters, because nothing else exists."
—Nicol Bolas
It shreds its prey as each head fights for the choicest bits.
Ending her life won't end the infestation.
Sometimes a little chaos is in order.
The Fountain had stood in the town square for centuries, but only the pigeons knew its secret.

"Jarad fancies himself king of the undercity, but he's merely king of rot."

"Unusual. Security also worth stealing."
—Dack Fayden



"I will go to any length to achieve my goal. Eternal life is worth any sacrifice."
—Zur the Enchanter
When the Izzet's spirit of invention extends to the city's infrastructure, the results are sometimes explosive.

"I hate insects of every sort. The only mercy is that they are generally small."
—Mwani, Mtenda goatherd



"The second mage learned to dissipate blasts of lightning. Threat and response: thus did the study of magic progress."
—Naban, dean of iteration
Unlike previous conflicts, the war between Urza and Mishra made Dominaria itself a casualty of war.
As the horrors closed in on Gerrard, Squee trembled and clutched his toy for comfort. He didn't know where it came from or why it was so warm, but he was glad he'd kept it near.




No institution, however grand, can withstand the collective will of the people.
What doesn't grow, dies. And what dies grows the tarmogoyf.

"Beauty to the eye does not always translate to the touch."
—Naimah, Femeref philosopher
The wise pay as much attention to what they throw away as to what they keep.
Karn's creation allowed him to monitor events across Dominaria—and everything he saw worried him.

She now sees only Emrakul's visions.
"I love what they've done with the place."
—Liliana Vess









Like so many obstacles in life, the Wall of Opposition is but an illusion, held fast by the focus and belief of the one who creates it.
Vodalian Mages were invaluable in magical combat. Unfortunately, the Homarids raided with strength, numbers, and very little magic.
Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.
Her grand wedding had one goal: to unite the vampire bloodlines under her rule.

"...and now they're trying to make a brick wall on my property fight a dinosaur to the death."



"There is no glory in a death of age, as even the leotau know. As winter steals into their coats, they seek the deadliest lands, that they may die as they lived."
—Aarsil the Blessed


The Abzan turn to this spell only as a last resort, for its inevitable result is what they most dread: to be alone.
"I would gladly die for the forest, but I'm much better at killing for it."

"I am the rock of the polis. Death only strengthens me."



Creations made in madness may contain great power. The path to that power is as labyrinthine as the creator's mind.


His abode was clean and bare, not a morsel in sight. I asked him what he ate, fearing the answer. He smiled and said his faith alone sustained him.
"They bind us with their laws. We free ourselves with nature's fist."
—Nikya of the Old Ways



The king went off to find himself. Imagine his terror when he succeeded.


"Only when we journey into the unknown can we find the impossible."
—Cyrul the Wanderer

The vedalken know it is not of this world, so they know that this world is not the only one.
"You wouldn't like me when I'm angry."



Goblins journey to the sacrificial peaks in pairs so that the rare survivor might be able to relate the details of the other's grisly demise.



"A jigsaw puzzle that lives, breeds, and thinks."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator

The greater the suffering, the sweeter the taste.



Named for the eastern part of the sky, the source of energy and renewal, Guan Yu's crescent-moon blade weighed over 100 pounds.





"Rulers come and go, but my allegiance belongs to the throne."




"As if his chest had been a mortar, he burst his hot heart's shell upon it."
—Herman Melville, *Moby Dick*





"As she reached the pinnacle, lightning flashed and her eyes blazed with newfound power."
—*Legend of the Gilded Knights*
"It's a cruel thing to give such a sad song to such a colorful creature."
—Sana, former Ahn-crop initiate

"Hesitation breeds dissension. To be worthy of the next life, you must never look back."
—Anep, vizier of Hazoret

After a disastrous day of battle, Lavabrink's lightning mages were recalled.
Brimstone marks this drake's territory. Unfortunately for travelers, all of the Burning Isles smell likewise.
"Practice compassion and mercy. But know when they must end."
—Aurelia





Memories burn with the brightest flames.


"Fool. I'll show you how to use that thing."

"The elders say that if the intruders discovered the secret of the golden city, it would mean an end to our people."
"A dash of cool water does wonders to clear a cluttered battlefield."
—Vibekke Ragnild, *Witches and War*
"To fill your mind with knowledge, we must start by emptying it."
—Barrin, master wizard
"Beauty determines value, and we determine beauty."

A single drop turns skin to scale and fist to claw.

"Regards from Peema."
—Rishkar
"The noble work of our order is to infuse all life on Esper with etherium. Our goal will be reached more rapidly if new life is . . . suppressed."
Many scholars believe that these creatures were the result of Urza's first attempt at mechanical life, perhaps created in his early days as an apprentice to Tocasia.

Each eye sees a different possibility for tomorrow.





"Sometimes it is better to be swift of foot than strong of swordarm."
—Elven proverb

Klothys set out to mend the destiny of Theros, her fury guiding every stitch.
"Beauty to the eye does not always translate to the touch."
—Naimah, Femeref philosopher
"How thoughtful of the Legion to train its soldiers to fit our spell's specifications."
—Nefara, Dimir agent
The bones of doomed ships jut out from the muck while the bones of their sailors molder below.



"To examine the causes of life, we must first have recourse to death."
—Mary Shelley, *Frankenstein*

"Skyknight gear? Well, I have drake-skin gauntlets, supple and fireproof. Or a ceratok chestplate that'll stop a crossbow bolt."


The parklike Cabaretti grounds offer rest, food, and the perfect place to shake off a tail.
"I will go to any length to achieve my goal. Eternal life is worth any sacrifice."
—Zur the Enchanter

"Mix the mortar with holy wards, or blood will run in the streets."
—Vadvar, Thraben stonewright

No lock of iron is a match for Vraska's will of stone.




"What sort of life is that, huddling in the familiar and safe? No thanks. Put me right in the center of the action."
"There is no secret buried so deep that we will never find it."
—Kurtar, Sultai necromancer
"Goblins won't betray their own kind for any price. They'll do it for a very specific price."
—Phage the Untouchable
Every branch a crossroads, every vine a swift steed.
Moss-covered statues littered the area, a macabre monument to the basilisk's power.
"What do they need all this stuff for? They're dead. We're alive. Simple enough."


"Survival rule 782: There are *always* more scute bugs."
—Zurdi, goblin shortcutter






The cool, sleek automatons beside her mirrored her own iron resolve.
"They can't even comprehend nature. How could they improve it?"
—Venser


"I would welcome her into my pack with honor."
—Arlinn Kord
"Let go your fury, and hone your anger. Become the fist of Freyalise!"
—Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order


The dense jungle surrenders to a lush and lavish expanse. At its center uncoil the spires of Qarsi Palace.
Connected as artificer and invention, bonded as rider and steed.
Do not fear the lightning. Fear the one it obeys.
"Like a strain of music: easy to remember but impossible to catch."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight*

The first satyr to wake after a revel must search for the site of the next one.


"no home no heart no hope"
—Stronghold graffito
"I have seen planes leveled and all life rendered to dust. It brought no pleasure, even to a heart as dark as mine."
—Sorin Markov

The Curse of Wandering leaves only hatred.


In Rakdos-controlled neighborhoods, everyone is part of the show.
Ashnod found few willing to trade their humanity for the power she offered them.










"Glory was gone; Glory was everywhere."
—*Scroll of Beginnings*

"Why should death always have the last word?"
—Llanowar druid


There's an experience worse than blindness—it's the certainty that your vision is perfect and the horror that there's no world around you to see.
"Remember Sir Shandlar! Remember and stand firm!"
—rallying cry of the Eberyn militia

The Dimir agents watched from the shadows. "Eight hours, and I've yet to see him blink," Nefara hissed. "I suggest we find another way in."



Conjured from the bowels of hell, the fiery wall forms an impassable barrier, searing the soul of any creature attempting to pass through its terrible bursts of flame.
The Mirari twisted all that lived in the Krosan Forest into gross mockeries of their former selves.



"Isn't he on our side?"
"Yep."
"Why's he spyin' on us?"
"Don't ask."
"River and sea, jungle and sky. Water flows freely between the two halves of the world. We are creatures of the water."
—Shaper Tuvasa
Things buried on Innistrad rarely seem to stay that way.

"The cost of your opposition will be extracted from your wits."
—Nekusar, the Mindrazer




"I have yet to find my equal."
"Shhh! I think I hear goblins. And I definitely smell them."






"You might be four times my size, but I will not be ignored!"

Kuldotha, wellspring of molten metal, temple of the goblin horde.







Victims spirited through a faerie ring find themselves stranded miles away.

It fears no sword and leaves no bones behind.
The pyromancer summoned up her mightiest onslaught of fire and rage. Jace feigned interest.



"Respect the earth, for it will one day be your shield and another day your blanket."
—Liefellen, Quirion exarch
"Research is hardly the dry, serious pastime outsiders make it out to be."
On Evos Isle, the swift and formidable aven enforce the will of the ruling sphinxes.
Carnivorous dinosaurs developed a taste for undead flesh, tracking the vampires by the scent of blood on their breath.
"Put your backs into it! If we don't lay claim to it, the Fallaji will!"


"If you wind up in one of mine, you can be sure as silver it will be your last."
—Grafdigger Wulmer


There is always a moment of trepidation before opening a message capsule, for fear of the judgment that might be contained within.
Invented in Mishra's earlier days, the Rack was once his most feared creation.

"Every thought is a star illuminating the darkness. Inspiration comes from finding the constellations that link them."
Each night that his bowl fills, a village mourns.
Zhang Fei's uncharacteristic alliance with a defeated Riverlands general, Yan Yan, allowed Shu forces to advance through forty-five Riverlands strongpoints with no casualties.


At first, the Mirrans aimed for its exposed gut. The survivors quickly learned to do otherwise.




Nature is stillness and savagery in equal measure.


"He is ambitious. Tireless. And utterly ruthless. Ideal for the frontier."
—Viceroy Elia Sotonores, report to the queen
The destruction of Markov Manor made the surviving members of the bloodline more dangerous.
"It is all in my grasp. Every petty dream, every grand scheme, every soul, every fear. It all flows through me and from me."
—Memnarch
Zombies are the perfect marshland fighters—they don't need to breathe and they don't care what they step in.
The murk of the Wanderbrine concealed unseemly rituals designed to bring out the worst in merrowkind.
"My sources say the Beamtown Bullies were spotted in the Mezzio. Keep your eyes sharp and stay close to me."
All who hear his inspiring words are filled with hope and pride.






"Lady Wren is the one merchant in Keyhole Downs who isn't running a scam."
—Mirela, Azorius hussar


"Some Eldrazi, their purpose is obvious: suck the life out of the land, birth new Eldrazi. Others aren't so obvious, and those are the ones that make me really nervous."
—Chadir the Navigator


"Look to the south; there you will find peace and serenity."
—*The Book of Tal*
Guarded by cartographers, disdained by warlords, coveted by adventurers.
"Our greatest hope has become our enemy's greatest triumph."
—Court counselor
It drinks fatigue.
"Your mind is too filled with foolish concerns to hear the subtle whispers that the breeze brings."





"We'd no sooner knock 'em back on their heels than that accursed sawbones would show up and patch 'em back together again."
—Ivra Jursdotter
Prahv, where much work is done to make sure nothing is accomplished.
Some clouds heed no wind.


It was a night like any other. It would soon become a night no one would ever forget.
Serra's gift to her people: a symbol of faith and hope.

Words to bless the eye that reads them, telling of a future beyond the reach of fear.
The Earth herself lends her strength to these walls of living stone, which possess the stability of ancient mountains. These mighty bulwarks thwart ground-based troops, providing welcome relief for weary warriors who defend the land.
This is not a subliminal message.
"The Goblins' dreaded War Drums struck terror into the hearts of even their bravest foes."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV*

Help us . . . R&D under mental domination of alien brain in jar . . . only chance . . . Gleemax's blatant disregard for flavor text . . . send help!
"No angel bars our ascent. Emeria waits above!"
"Valor is a currency of the living that serves us well."
—Cosper Lowe of the Silbern Guard

"All rivers eventually run to the sea. My job is to sort out who goes first."
—Maeveen O'Donagh, *Memoirs of a Soldier*

This is a world of spiteful wasps that sting and kill even as they die.



The best use for a unicorn's horn is to adorn a unicorn.
—Femeref adage
"You may enter the city-once the toll is paid."
For a ghoul, every village is a buffet and every disaster is a reunion.
Reinforcements . . . or refreshments?
When demons open a path to your front door, it's time to move.
"You serve Phyrexia. Your pieces would better serve Phyrexia elsewhere."
—Azax-Azog, the Demon Thane

"Don't mourn for me. This is my destiny."
—Gerrard
With Kumena in control of the Immortal Sun, the rapids rose from their riverbeds and the waterfalls took flight.
"Remember by whose gift you ascend."
—Milana, Orzhov prelate
"Many hands make light work."
@-Ludevic, necro-alchemist
Warriors of the Tsunami-nito School spend years in training to master the way of effortless effort.


"Get in there, soldier! I want a pelt on my wall before lunch!"
"I have seen things that would reduce a weaker person to blubbering and raving. Want to hear about them?"
—Vraska



"Have you seen your face? Trust me, this will be an improvement."

Those who bring nothing to the temple take nothing away.
Purchasing chrome racehorses with cash is a common means of dispersing mysterious income.


"In our war with the kami, we annihilate what is our own. Do they too suffer ruination in their hidden world?"
—Diary of Azusa
"Through the blood of the wicked, we shall be redeemed. Let us pray."

"Yarok grieves within the waste
Of Bala Ged's corrupted land."
—*Lament for Bala Ged*, stanza 1

"Old battlefields make great gardens. So rich from the blood of the fallen."
"A treasure to guard other treasures is worth the highest price."
—Mtai, Civic Guildmage

"These things will protect you while I'm gone, remind you of my love for you."
—"Love Song of Night and Day"
"I've heard enough."
Stolen knowledge can never be stolen back.


They glide through the undergrowth, drawn to sounds of disturbance. They attack in unison and all share in the kill. And then they move on.
"I have seen life's purpose, and now it is my own."
—Kamahl, druid acolyte



When creating a new War Drum, Goblin designers sought out the highest quality skulls. Serra Angel skulls were most highly prized, although most acknowledged that the skull of the exotic Sea Serpent made for a richer tone.

The stench of bloodcap mushrooms on the breath is enough to ward off even the most potent magics, especially when combined with a special chant: "Hushhh."




"Glaxxar, Security Bot 254 has wandered off. After lunch, throw on a spacesuit and go find it."
—Truss, chief engineer.

"The elements understand better than anyone that actions speak louder than words."
—Gideon Jura

A friend of Jorn is never cold.


It takes no prisoners, but it keeps the choicest bits for Phyrexia.

"Zendikar's wounds can be healed."




"Build a moat. If we're lucky, it can't swim."
—Syr Branigan, knight of Ardenvale




Although mute, hoverguards get their message across loud and clear.



A true warrior's thoughts are of victory, not death.
If you saw her, you'd go "AAAHHHH!"


"There's no success like excess!"
Anything can be a weapon if you swing it hard enough.
There will be no absolution.
After careful study, you've determined that the giant ruins served to track the movement of the planets ... and they will soon align once more.
These are its last days. Its doom to be remembered only until the hunters hunger again.

"A mage must be precise as well as potent; cautious, as well as clever."
—Zur the Enchanter
Weeping, the hunter cast aside her bow, struck by the majesty of the creature before her.

A step in one direction is two steps away from another.

"We came to a place where the skin of Zendikar was peeled back and its bones lay bare to the sky."
—Greenweaver Mina
ピクシー並みの体、ヘルカイト並みの怒り。
"Clerics give up when their patients die. Can I help it if I'm more compassionate?"

The return of Ramos was foretold by devastating natural disasters and unnatural storms.
"When he reached the entrance of the cavern, he pronounced the words, 'Open, Sesame!'" —*The Arabian Nights*, Junior Classics trans.
They feed on the living to stay undead.


Those without a guild signet often display a different form of protection.
Eyes are unnecessary for seeing the future.
"Like our guild itself, this locket can stand for many things. You must discern what it means for you."
—Vannifar


Vampires of the Markov bloodline pride themselves on their exquisite taste in fashion, art, and "wine of the vein."





Burl, scurf, and bower
Birth fern and flower.




"Looks like you need protection."



Beneath each gleaming mineral shell rots a once-proud warrior of Amonkhet.
"They don't move, do they?"
"Only for the wrong sort of people."
"Are *we* the wrong sort of people?"
"Beauty to the eye does not always translate to the touch."
—Naimah, Femeref philosopher





Where the nefashu pass, blood rolls like a silk carpet.










It was the explorers' only tether to reality.


"Stay in the light. I don't know what lurks in those shadows, and I'd like to keep it that way."
Rage is the culmination of an accelerating cycle of anger and violence that feeds itself in battle, spreading like a flame from one warrior to another.

Many elves incorporate the beauty of nature into their inventions. Very few capture its savagery.



"A flash of the lightning, a break of the wave, He passes from life to his rest in the grave."
—William Knox, "Mortality"



"Kill the weak so they can't drag the strong down to their level. This is true compassion."
—Benzir, archdruid of Temple Might
Frequent, violent storms shape the Nephalia coastline, sculpting cliffs and caves where monsters often lurk.
Ask your query and be on your way. Just don't look her in the eye.
"It's good to see the eagles circling the Lighthouse once again."
—Tazri

"Such a lord as this—all virtues' height— Had never been, nor ever was again."

On the continent of Tazeem, rushing waters plunge through narrow canyons into mist-cloaked lakes.


You're about to disembark to find the harbormaster when you spot a merfolk darting underneath your ship.
It's not far into the trap, as the crow flies.

According to merfolk legend, a denizen of the deep swallows the horizon at the end of each day, bringing on the cold blanket of night.
The tall, reedy grass of the Daru Plains rustles loudly in the winds, a perfect cover for any ambush.
Seton dreams of life renewed.

The peaks of Hurloon never fall silent.


"Rats and jackals feast in his swath, but even they will not walk with him."
—Mangara

"'That was a narrow escape!' said Alice, a good deal frightened at the sudden change, but very glad to find herself still in existence."
—Lewis Carroll,
*Alice's Adventures in Wonderland*



Just as each added feather steadies the wing, so does the flock grow stronger with each new member.
"Find out whose that is. I like its energy."
—Judith
Not all tickets can be exchanged for prizes.

When the moon rises and the bloodlust takes hold, nothing matters but the kill.
A boon to those who cannot see in the dark. A bane to those who live in it.
His bolas whirl like galaxies, but it's his enemies who see stars.
"Your argument as to why I should spare you lacked substance. Now, so do you."
—Geyadrone Dihada

Barbarians weave its spurs into ceremonial charms to proclaim their hardiness in battle.

"No one petal claims beauty for the lotus."
"I am heir to many treasures. None is as precious as knowing how my ancestor lived her life."


In the Krosan Forest, you've got to keep an eye out for the squirrels.


Some Akroans make the dangerous pilgrimage to the volcanic temples of Purphoros, where oracles known as flamespeakers glean omens from lava.
"A herd is only as strong as its weakest. Our weakest just killed his third minotaur raider—today."
—Braulios of Pheres Band
"Restraint is for the meek."

Only those gifted with the eye of Ugin, the spirit dragon, can see his fiery breath.
Two times the size, four times the smell.

"Hammer out your doubts as you forge your weapon. To slay a dragon, your resolve must be stronger than your steel."

"His tenement is filled with the most vile, disgusting vermin. It's infested with rats, too."
—Branko One-Ear

"Life is too short for something like a hunk of rock to get in my way."


"The walls of the wicked will fall before us. Ready the siege engines. We proceed to war!"
—General Avitora

"When one of us prospers, the pride prospers."
—Jazal Goldmane

The stench in the hovel was overpowering; something loathsome was cooking. Occasionally something surfaced in the thick paste, but my host would casually push it down before I could make out what it was.
The changing of a single moment in Tarkir's past altered its future, rewriting its history.

He ensures not only whether but also when and where the lightning strikes twice.
As the time streams grew more and more unstable, Dominaria's creatures struggled to adapt. The intense pressures led to many dead ends but also to lethal new forms that appeared as suddenly as the ashen rains.
Rogues bring an array of useful skills to the work of an adventuring party: stealth, agility, the ability to locate and disarm traps, and a subtle, deadly fighting style.
Wildflowers here bloom not with the season but with the ebb and flow of magic.
"Don't look upon still waters without first breaking the surface. The korrigan will catch you with her gaze and drag you to your death."
—Kithkin superstition
The Great Mending that healed the Multiverse also unraveled the threads of Nicol Bolas's power.
The Neurok see the artificer as an archaeologist, clearing away falsehoods to see the truth hidden beneath.
Even those born to battle could only lay their blades at Akroma's feet.

Though Heliod turned against humanity in his hunger for power, the ideals he once championed still stand strong.

On Otaria, peace and harmony are rare. Places that provide both are cherished.
"Some fates you can see coming for you, plain as day, and there's nothing you can do about them."
—Callaphe the mariner
"If you're gonna lose, at least make sure they don't win as much."
—Jula, goblin raider

Unaware of Lorwyn's diversity, it sees only itself, reflected a thousand times over.
Generations of genetic weeding have given rise to the deviously cowardly Ironclaw clan. To say that Orcs in general are vicious, depraved, and ignoble does not do justice to the Ironclaw.
"Avacyn has deserted you. I welcome your devotion in her stead."
"We thought it was a fallen tree trunk. Then it ate Snod."
—Sneed, goblin barkwright
Mood: A bit regretful but still looking for loot.
Storm crow descending, winter unending. Storm crow departing, summer is starting.

Weakness is not in the nature of the Swarm.

"What was once formed by masons, shaped by smiths, or given life by mages, I will return to the embrace of the earth."

"We are Odric's sword. We strike without fear, for his mind has divined how our foe will be slain."
After weeks of unending darkness, a glimpse of dawn was all the people of Stensia needed to rekindle their will to fight.


Radiant's eyes flashed. "Go, then," the angel spat at Serra, "and leave this world to those who truly care."
A savage hunter with a prince's bearing.
"Let's see who gets more kills, Radha."

"I would weep, but my tears have been stolen; I would shout, but my voice has been taken. Thus, I write."
It hears and answers every orison across Shadowmoor.

"And topples round the dreary west A looming bastion fringed with fire."
—Alfred, Lord Tennyson, "In Memoriam"
"It's time for the 'Smash, Smash' song!"
"Find out whose that is. I like its energy."
—Judith


"Are you seriously telling me your heavy combat mech . . . blew away?"
—Risona, leader of the Asari Uprisers


"Never corner a barbarian. You become the path of least resistance."
—Sarkhan Vol

Oku-Doku had gone through all the motions: the same akki cursewords, the same ingredients with their horrid stink, the same rude gestures. Yet not a person died.


The murderous horrors of Raven's Run are legendary, but even that haunted place goes quiet when the night wolves howl.
"Look to the old tomes, those bound in hides and written in yarberry ink. They hold the spells that can free us of the clutter of modern magecraft."
—Dravash, dowsing shaman
There is always a greater power.

Keld faced an apocalypse to fulfill a dire prophecy. Now Keldons have nothing left to believe in except themselves.
"Let the vampires join us. In this war, we no longer have the luxury of choosing our comrades."
—General Tazri, allied commander
"The mist clothes us when we are bare, hides us when we are alone, and unites us when we are together."
—Nirit of Pashona's band
"Every field watered in warriors' blood is sacred ground. Lay it not to waste, but claim it for our own—for glory, and for Stromgald!"
—Avram Garrisson, Leader of the Knights of Stromgald
"Look at her, once filled with innocence. Death has a way of wringing away such . . . deficiencies."
—Savra





Zarv no longer trusted the kitten posters telling him to "hang in there."
Alrund sees the future as a whorl of signs and symbols, omens interwoven in an intricate knotwork only he can decipher.
Anarchy comes in many forms: social, individual, Gruul . . .


"The world is already run by all manner of machines. One day, they'll remind us of that fact."
—Sargis Haz, artificer
No one is as dedicated to perfection as a stitcher working on their latest masterpiece.
"How blessed are some people, whose lives have no fears, no dreads, to whom sleep is a blessing that comes nightly, and brings nothing but sweet dreams."
—Bram Stoker, *Dracula*



"Words have yet to halt an arrow."

"Of course we can squeeze in a few more! It's not like corpses need personal space."
—Orson, cemetery baron
When Baral constructed his trap for Chandra, he did not account for the arrival of an enormous leonin wielding a twin-headed axe.

"Remember to have Jenrik research Markov Manor."
—Tamiyo's journal

They fight for their home with more loyalty than any conscript.
"The bonds of loyalty can tie one to the grave."
—Crovax, ascendant evincar


Once it consecrated the dead. Now it desecrates them.

This strange beast has the hide of a leopard, the howl of a dog, and the horns of an ox.
Zombies mourn for the living and celebrate those who will soon be given the gift of death.




A circus acrobat in life, she kills with such fluid grace that even her victims are awed by her performance.


Most mirrors show your reflection. Others show your potential.
"If a creature is dumb enough to love you for leashing it, why would you want to follow its lead?"
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight*
The chant was incomprehensible, but its power was unmistakable.
Leave no treasure behind.

"Work for the Dimir again? That depends. Tell me more about this maze."

A moment of distraction, an hour off course.
Two kinds of myr survive: the powerful and those that stay close by them.
"To evade the brood lineages, one must be made dark to all the senses."
—Traga, Zulaport runner
On the continent of Tazeem, rushing waters plunge through narrow canyons into mist-cloaked lakes.
"It reflects the purity of Mirrodin-that-was."
—Koth of the Hammer

"Don't mistake my creations for mere vegetation. They are my children, loyal and fierce."



MORE TO LOVE: Friendly, nature-loving, Bunyonesque SEM seeks SEF looking for a huge commitment. . . . seeks atog prince

For hundreds of years Ugin slept, encased in the cocoon of stone and magic Sarkhan had created using a shard of a Zendikari hedron. As Ugin lay dormant, his spectral guardians kept vigil.


A plus-one is simply not enough.

"Well there's your problem—resonance leak lowering output by thirty percent. I can patch that up."
Energy is never lost, only transformed.
With an armory of light, even the squire may champion her people.

"Some savor the hunt. I savor the kill."
"It's truly the highest honor, isn't it? To be remembered? Pity for you."
There are no "weak" creatures on Jund. Even the smallest can strike a deadly blow.
Confront her, and feel the hooves of her steed. Ignore her, and feel the sting of her arrow.
One eye sees the past, one the present, and one the future—and none can be deceived.


Dromoka's followers forsake blood ties so that they may join a greater family.
"Nature can't be stopped. It rips and tears at Ravnica's tallest buildings to claim its place in the sun."
"no home no heart no hope"
—Stronghold graffito

Gerrard grinned and drew his sword. "This won't be a fair fight," he called to his crew. "They should have brought a second ship!"
When night fell, the plane itself was scarred.

A hunter's precision and a durkvine's strength are a potent combination.

"I often think on how excited they must feel to be chosen as my prey."
Its crystalline core refracts light into chaos.
"You can't get there from here. Well, you *can*—it just won't be fun."
—Ertai, wizard adept
"These skittering creatures were created to hunt the one true threat to Phyrexia: dissent."
—Venser, journal
"All rivers eventually run to the sea. My job is to sort out who goes first."
—Maeveen O'Donagh, *Memoirs of a Soldier*
The barest taste of Eldrazi power shatters both realms and identities.
Where the Tangle overruns the Oxidda mountains, metallic beasts scratch their territories in the verdigris.

"Perhaps extra heads would have served them better."
—Foothill guide

Mirri did not have time to think, only to react.


Trows have learned that it's not wise to eat cinders without a bucket or two of water nearby.

"Rage! Rage until the whole world burns!"
Even the lost and undead need a protector.

Nicol Bolas doesn't distinguish between servants and victims.

After boring up through the crust of Mirrodin, it turned its expertise upon the surface dwellers.


"My, what a pretty little trick. At least you'll die with style."


The Sylvok see the artificer as a gardener, preparing the world for hardy growth.
It belongs to the merfolk now.
—Shipwreck prayer

Unable to settle on just one versatile being, Urza decided to create myriad adaptable machines.
"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim."
—Sisay, captain of the *Weatherlight*
It harmonizes with the essence of its master.


"You idiot! Never let the spies mingle with the Orcish regulars after completing a mission. Now we'll never get them to fight!"
—General Khurzog
Murky Otarian tides hide the forgotten treacheries of the Phyrexian war.
Instead of creating a tool that would be damaged by heat, the Thran built one that was charged by it.

"Oi oi oi, me gotta hurt in 'ere, Oi oi oi, me smell a ting is near, Gonna bosh 'n gonna nosh 'n da hurt'll disappear."
—Troll chant

When it awoke, the worms of the earth hissed in a chorus of beckoning.
"...cake. The Overmind demands cake. The Overmind also requires that..."

The Sanctum Seekers were the first of the knightly orders to cross the sea and are still the most zealous.

"The Shaman waved the staff, and the land itself went mad."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry

"I have exactly what you need. The question is, how badly do you need it?"
It promises protection to those in need and proclaims a warning to any who would threaten Ravnican law.







Thaumaturges remain silent around chimeras, lest their words conjure even stranger beasts.
"Survival rule 781: There are always more scute bugs."
—Zurdi, goblin shortcutter
Those who lead others to wisdom become the wisest themselves.
"The unnatural pressures of life in this city are best withstood by lifeforms that adapt with unnatural swiftness."
—Momir Vig



Giants share nothing but their fury.

Ashnod invented several torture techniques that could make victims even miles away beg for mercy as if the End had come.
"Serra's light isn't easily extinguished."
—Reya Dawnbringer

Left without their leader Raksha, the leonin split into two prides: one side supported the regent kha, while the other rebelled in fury.
They draw upon the strength of their hive and of their victims.
Dark thoughts hatch and twist within the mind, straining to take wing.

"I like to think Kytheon keeps watch over all of us."



You've never cared much for laws or authority, especially when they get in your way.
"Evil flourishes where ignorance thrives."
—Perisophia the philosopher
"The higher the mind soars, the greater its understanding of the law."
—Isperia


Teferi's body couldn't travel through time far enough, but with Kaya's help, his spirit could.
In the aftermath of war, when the slaying is long done, the greatest miseries come home to roost.
To know the battlefield is to anticipate the enemy. To know the enemy is to anticipate victory.


As his new wings lifted him high above Bant, Taric felt his earthly aspirations transform into heavenly resolve.


"I am reminded of the fable of the silver egg. Its owner cracks it open to see what jewels it holds, only to discover a simple yellow yolk."
—Karn, silver golem
"Good ideas don't take time. They take a lot of bad ideas first."
—Ral Zarek
"I've seen fog so thick you could cut it, but none that could cut me."
—Tahngarth of the *Weatherlight*

"Yes, I think 'toast' is an appropriate description."
—Jaya Ballard, Task Mage


Nothing satisfies a merrow as much as drowning what it cannot have.
Within each device is a spark of its creator's soul. Within each sage is a lamp that awaits that spark.


Centuries before the first chimneys of Mephidross belched clouds of toxic gas, only the golems' movements stirred the air of Mirrodin.
One faerie distracts the judge while a second steals the law.

"The raging winds . . . , settling on the sea, the surges sweep, / Raise liquid mountains, and disclose the deep."
—Virgil, *Aeneid, Book I*, trans. Dryden

The vanguard is skilled at waging war alone. The enemy is often defeated before its reinforcements reach the front.
"We are not here to mourn their loss. We are here to celebrate their lives."
—Vesna, Dawnhart witch

"They are the finest companions in the realm. Swift, clever, and easily trained to hunt intruders."
—Almira, falconer


"I've made some fine acquisitions of late, so I'm planning to make commensurate improvements to my security systems. I have a consultant coming tomorrow."
—Kurna Majan, Luminary League

Dimir assassins have the precision to slay a single memory.

"Sea Gate may have fallen, but we still stand. We still fight."
—Gideon Jura

For every eye, an eye. For every tooth, a tooth. Griffins are nothing if not fair.


Fools believe that Kolaghan's brood follows lightning storms. The wise know that it is the other way around.
Takedowns in Valor's Reach are never meant to be lethal, but that doesn't mean they won't be incredibly painful.
"My horizon was the arcing petals, my new home resplendent with spires of weeds and pillows of fragrant pollen."
—Naimah, Femeref philosopher




"The scourge of Skyshroud is airborne once more."
—Oracle *en*-Vec
"My skill sharpens with each beat of my wings."

"We train for the improbable, like lightning striking the same place twice, or striking everywhere at once."
—Nundari, Sea Gate militia captain
Cyclical and spiral patterns are the specialty of the Gyre Clade, which seeks to revitalize the cycles of nature.


Massive, mindless, and imbued with one terrible purpose.
Her connection to the plane restored, Nissa felt the power of Zendikar surge through her.

What the rangers thought were warning growls turned out to be nothing but monstrous snoring.




"Wrath is no vice when inflicted upon the deserving."


No one can navigate the dank maze of Shadowmoor's rivers better than the cruel and covetous merrows. They use the currents to steal—and to steal away.
"Never stop 'til you see your lance come out the other side."
—Telim'Tor



"We are the swift, the strong, the blade's sharp shriek! Fear nothing, and strike!"
"The war will be decided here, where the planet's defenses are strongest."
—Marneus Calgar
"The dead whisper to the living. If you listen, you will learn."
—Maro

"Defending the citadel is easy. I just take these big fellows outside the main gate and let the enemy take a good long look."
—Mastodon keeper

When the Mirrans had fallen, Planeswalkers carried the burden of remembrance.

"The sad truth is that the whip of Erebos is long enough to wrap around all our throats."
—Perisophia the philosopher








A wurm knows nothing of deception. If it opens its mouth, it plans to eat you.
Kuldotha, wellspring of molten metal, temple of the goblin horde.








As a ruthless leader for Volrath, Greven *il*-Vec serves his lord by commanding the flying ship *Predator*. Greven has attained his powerful rank through a series of underhanded schemes and assassinations, the majority of which were blessed by Volrath himself.
"Let my hope be your shield."

Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.
Understanding is a matter of perspective.


The evincar has many ways of keeping track of his subjects.
"I designed the Astrotorium's jetpacks to be lightweight and inexpensive. Nobody mentioned reliable."
—Truss, chief engineer
"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim."
—Sisay, captain of the *Weatherlight*
Giants know a solid hit is one part strength, four parts leverage.
"Always carry two spears."
—Mokgar, Kalonian hunter
It strikes like a bolt from a brainstorm.

As the continent sank over the course of eons, the tomb complex slowly flooded. The sleeping Necrons, their stasis crypts corrupted, never awoke.
"Engaging Protector protocol."
Whether mechanical or biological, life finds a way to propagate itself.



"They exist only so long as the living take no notice."
—Kifimbo, Shadow guildmage



"Magic's only part of it, my friend. Diet does the rest."
—Suq'Ata trader
As the price of wood and coal rose, smiths found creative ways to keep their forges burning.
"To break another's mind is to deliver a fate worse than death. It is a terrifying power."
—Jace Beleren
A swiftblade is an artist, each fiery trail of their blades a fleeting masterpiece traced on the air.
Alara is broken no more.
"Belief is the strongest mortar."
"It's the must-have gift for everyone on your list. Get one for yourself, too!"
—Chammi, curio vendor
A missing piece in search of a puzzle.
"It hurts more if you think about it."
—Hooks, Cabal torturer

"The final stage of the illness: delirium, convulsions, and death."
—Phyrexian progress notes
To a siegehorn, there is no such thing as a dead end.

"Soulless demon, you are bound to me. Now we will both dwell in oblivion."
Shipwrecks do wonders for the local fauna, providing both shelter and aether.
Its eyes burned nearly blind by the Whitesun, it hunts by metallic gleam.

For hundreds of years Ugin slept, encased in the cocoon of stone and magic Sarkhan had created using a shard of a Zendikari hedron. As Ugin lay dormant, his spectral guardians kept vigil.
"It saddens me to lose a source of inspiration. This one seemed especially promising."
—Ashiok

"You'll bend to my will@-with or without your precious sanity."
"Embrace your hunger, your lust, your desire. The universe is ours for the taking!"
—Sanctifer LeVay, Cult of the Sacred Union
"The tides have begun to ignore the moon."
—Tamiyo's journal
"Flesh is a sickness that infects Phyrexia."
—Avaricta, Gitaxian sective
The best weapon is the one at hand.
Once guarded by the Knights of the Reliquary, the tower stands now protected only by its own remoteness, its dusty treasures open to plunder by anyone.
The earth walks, strongest of all.
The debased remnants of the Falkenrath bloodline prowl the passes near their ruined castles.

It scaled the Sokenzan Mountains in search of Kumano's secret. The mountain shook for two days, and the kami never returned.
Greven *il*-Vec lifted Vhati off his feet. "The fall will give you time to think on your failure."


". . . The ghost rides forth to the scene of battle in nightly quest of his head . . . he sometimes passes along the Hollow, like a midnight blast . . ." —Washington Irving, *The Legend of Sleepy Hollow*


In an age of war, time is measured not by sand but by blood.
Once a center for knowledge, Sea Gate now serves as a reminder of what was lost.

There is no drake that flies faster than a crossbow bolt.
—Vec saying

Stitchers delegate the most important tasks to assistants with a good eye for detail.

Its food just got a lot smaller and its stomach a lot bigger.

Bolas cared little when his statue fell, thinking it a useful distraction, underestimating the surge of resolve it gave his opponents.






Each spike is poisoned—the trapmaker's idea of mercy.
"The louder their performance, the quieter we become in comparison. They are the perfect distractions, for only fools ignore the Rakdos."
—Lazav
"Faith can quicken the stones themselves with life."
—Writings of Mikaeus

Size of a pixie, rage of a hellkite.


"The further into the future I look, the less certain my vision. Even now, the middle distance is obscured by fire."
The only sound was the gentle clicking of the Faeries' wings. Then those intruders who were still standing turned and fled. One thing was certain: they didn't think the Scryb were very funny anymore.




"Peace will come only when we have taken Varchild's head."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain


"The Sultai came hunting for a bear hide. Now I have a belt of naga skin, and my friend has a full belly."
The dead who wander beyond the safety of the city crave only to spread their curse.
"'Tis distance lends enchantment to the view,/ And robes the mountain in its azure hue." —Thomas Campbell, "Pleasures of Hope"

Deserts of industrial ash surround the hive cities, covering the surface of the planet with an unstable, corrosive skin.

The Dimir rarely make statements, but when they do, the message is clear.



A great mirage, a dream of wings and silver.




"Healing is a matter of time, but it is sometimes also a matter of opportunity." —D'Avenant proverb





"Ours is a glorious transmission! Behold a future where all bow to the Father of Machines."
—Isila, Priest of Sheoldred
To Jin-Gitaxias, perfection is not a goal, but a process.

It herds souls toward eternal torment.
A mudflow swallowed the lowlands years ago. All that remains are a bottomless mire and an endless rain of ash.


"Beware the seagrafs just off the shore. These waters are filled with hungry geists looking for an easy meal."
—Captain Eberhart



"My earliest work escapes me."
—Stitcher Geralf




Death claims all but the darkest souls.



"Inspiration is reciprocal: we all have a responsibility to each other to create."
"Walk the world and you'll find your soul; search your soul and you'll discover the world."
—Diary of Azusa
Surrakar grab things they don't want.

"Damn the cannons, mates. Charge!"


The bolt struck with a flash, and there was a terrible sound, as of glass shattering, but the creature was unharmed.
The true treasure no thief can touch.
"The admixture of bitterwort in the viral brew has produced most favorable results."
—Phyrexian progress notes
A path vexed by the stingmoggie was probably the wrong path anyhow.
The continent of Ondu is a vast plateau crisscrossed by deep trenches and meandering rivers.

"You've strayed, overworlder."
Quick and agile, Amrou Kithkin can usually escape from even the most fearsome opponents.



Mirran creatures that could withstand the Phyrexian oil found an abundance of crunchy snacks.



"I expected a fight, but I didn't expect it from the building itself."
—Gerrard
"Dwelling in icy mountain streams near Goblin and Orcish foes, the River Merfolk were known for their stoicism."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. V*
Fortunately, Hill Giants have large blind spots in which a human can easily hide. Unfortunately, these blind spots are beneath the bottoms of their feet.
A master of tactics, the Lord of Atlantis makes his people bold in battle merely by arriving to lead them.

We shall suffer turmoil equal to that which we have wrought, whether in this life or the next.

"I confer with Death itself. What could you possibly do to injure me?"
"Zendikar will not surrender, and neither can we."



Only the Eldrazi mind thinks in the warped paths required to open the hedrons and tap the power within.

The best recipes start with reliable cookware.
When human corpses are in short supply, stitchers get creative.
"What I want, I take."
—Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran royal mage
After Kroog was destroyed while most of its defenders were at his side, Urza vowed that none of his allies would ever need to fear for their own defense again, even while laying siege to a city far from their homes.



"No. No! Not the sarcophagus . . . Khorne damn you, you disloyal curs. JUST KILL ME!"
—Kalos the Ravager



"We do not believe in hiding our wealth in the shadows. This is Orzhov, and this is how we reward greatness."
—Teysa Karlov, Grand Envoy of Orzhov
"The lotus is a potent but ephemeral source of power. To preserve its potency, lacquer carefully with a conductive coating."
—*Hurkyl's Metaphysics, vol. II*
They skitter out of the mists to consume fresh kill before Mephidross has a chance to corrode it away.
The ideas came flooding in so fast that they couldn't all be contained.
Her sword sings more beautifully than any choir.
"We trust in the scalelords, bringers of justice that none can escape."
—Urdnan, Dromoka warrior
"Never forget our ancestors. They have not forgotten us."
—Mikaeus, the Lunarch
"It's nice to see a sister Dwarf in a position of such power, but why'd it have to be one of those seafaring muleheads?"
—Halina, Dwarven Trader



As Ravnica's wilds expanded, even advocates for nature had to confront fiercer natural threats.



"Four parts molten bronze, yes . . . one part frozen mercury, yes, yes . . . but then what?"


"All beings have an inner light. Let me show you yours."
—Ushanti, leonin seer

Those gifted with the sight have one eye in the present and the other in the future.


"You've begun to understand the hedrons' true purpose," said Ugin. "The Eldrazi can be imprisoned."
"And how did that work out last time?" asked Jace.
"Our will shall be our weapons, our faith shall be our armour."
—Canticle of Absolution




Lumengrid, site of the Knowledge Pool, source of vedalken arcana.

The Azorius symbol stares down like a great eye, reminding visitors of the watchful presence of Isperia and her lawmages.





Gerrard looked all around for the source of the mysterious pulse, and at that moment the slivers boiled forth from the crevasses.
Serra told them to guard Urza as he healed. Five years they stood.

Your entire life passes before its eyes.


"Does it burn, Saprazzan? Do you wish you had never raised arms against us?"
—Kyren overseer


"I'll have my revenge if I have to call on every force from above and below."



"Death is no excuse for disobedience."
—Liliana Vess


"Domination by the strongest—that is all that matters in the Tangle now."
—Vorinclex, Voice of Hunger
Only the most skilled budoka could protect the Okina Shrine. Only the best of these protectors took the night watch.


"I have seen your strength imbued in angels' wings, and I have felt your sorrow rain down on the ruins brought by the Lord of the Wastes."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator
All crave the Blessed Sleep. Few receive it.



Some storms never blow over.

Forked tails rustled. Talons clicked. A lone sliver streaked overhead like jagged lightning, and the hive thundered.
"They were your friends, your family, your clan. They want only to welcome you."
—Tasigur, the Golden Fang
She now sees only Emrakul's visions.

The air itself shuddered at the wizard's words, and from the dark beyond, her call was answered.


The Curse of Wandering leaves only hatred.
Quick and agile, Amrou Kithkin can usually escape from even the most fearsome opponents.
"We have intel that some guilds have fallen under an invader's influence. Until we're sure, no venture succeeds."
—Lazav


The generals were dead. The battle plans were forgotten. It was everyone for themselves.
Mines became common as cities during the days of the artificers.
"I am the purifier, the light that clears all shadows."
—Seal inscription

Witherbloom students learn to see death not as tragedy, but as opportunity.
Once he'd worked out which end of the thing was sharp, he was promoted to guard duty.
We had taken refuge in a small cave, thinking the entrance was too narrow for it to follow. To our horror, its gigantic head smashed into the mountainside, ripping itself a new entrance.

Countless worlds unfolded before Niko, every one in need of heroes.

At the epicenter of the Rathi overlay, the City of Traitors did not align with Dominaria. Many of its inhabitants were caught between the two worlds.
"My wings shall be your shield. My sword shall be your vengeance."

The key did not work on a single lock, yet it opened many doors.
Moon Market merchants sell a bottled scent to cutpurses and other criminals. Those doused in the liquid become "griffin bait."


Dry grass is tinder before the spark.

"I don't want what I don't have. I want more of what I *do* have."


The tips of her bolts are blunt, but her aim is deadly sharp.
"Flesh is a betrayal of the self."
Sanctions, mandates, regulations . . . These things mean nothing to the natural world.

Those whose lives were uninspired are doomed to the wretched tedium of Phylias in death.





"First blood isn't as important as last blood."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*


When asked how many paths reach enlightenment, the monk kicked a heap of sand. "Count," he smiled, "and then find more grains."





"Home is where you can find a decent graveyard and strangers can disappear without awkward questions."

"It startles me how alive one feels on the edge of death."
—Barrin, master wizard
A Planeswalker's chronicle spans worlds and civilizations, each page a lifetime.

"Those who show no mercy to the weak deserve no mercy from the strong."
—Firemane Kavrova
"Step aside, weakling, or I'll swat you like the bug you are."
The wires crawl over broken metal and heat themselves to melting, filling cracks quickly and efficiently.
Vengeance is a dish best served twice.
"Death is merely another foe the Mardu will overcome."

His name is spoken only in whispers—but he hears just the same.
It kills what is, making way for what should not be.
The skyhunters were born when the first leonin gazed at the heavens and wished to hunt the birds overhead.
"Preachers of freedom forget that conformity can be beautiful."
"Her hunger knows no limit. Left unchecked, she would feast on all of Tarkir."
—Yasova Dragonclaw
"I can bring down anything in Zagoth, but for some quarry the ratio of fight to meat is too high."
—Master Hunter Chevill
Gimme five! (Or whatever you got.)

"Dauthi blood is Soltari wine."
—Soltari Tales of Life
It took Yavimaya a thousand years to breed them, but it took only seconds for them to prove their worth.







"Not again."
—Hans


The only livestock that will survive for long in the Smelting District, ember beasts serve many functions—none of them willingly.
It loves to eat all things crispy, crunchy, and cheddar flavored.


Ask a merfolk even a simple question and the answer is a journey far beyond the known.

Ral's storm crackled with mystical detections: Planeswalkers were infiltrating Ravnica.
"The specimen seems to be broken."


Certain initiates into the Skirsdag cult take a vow of blindness, pledging obedience to none but demonkind.
Whether trained, ridden, or eaten, few goblin military innovations have rivaled the bug.
As werewolf attacks increased, brutal weapons not seen since the Travails were dusted off and put to work.


"How truly vast this city must be, that I have traveled so far and seen so much, yet never once found the place where the buildings fail."
"This 'standing windstorm' can hold us off indefinitely? Ridiculous!" Saying nothing, she put a pinch of salt on the table. With a bang she clapped her hands, and the salt disappeared, blown away.

While it possesses potent venom, the Giant Spider often chooses not to paralyze its victims. Perhaps the creature enjoys the gentle rocking motion caused by its captives' struggles to escape its web.

New life is born within its shadows.




Her haunting tune drowns out the percussion of snapping masts.

"As she reached the pinnacle, lightning flashed and her eyes blazed with newfound power."
—*Legend of the Gilded Knights*
"The left blade is a for a swift, painless death. The right blade for a long, lingering one. The choice is mine."
It puts the "fur" in "fury."


The best defense is a good offense.
When Purphoros cleans the ashes from his forge, entire cities vanish.
"There is no such thing as scrap metal. All such material can be repaired with the proper bonding agent."
—Quennus, metallurgeon
"Know one part of the name, obsession begins. Know two parts, paranoia sets in. Know three parts, madness descends. Know all, and only the kami know what will become of you."
—Lady Azami
His blade was forged over coals of moaning treefolk, curved at the optimum angle for severing heads, and heated to volcanic temperatures by his touch.
"For every one that falls, ten shall rise. The revelation of New Phyrexia is at hand."
—Vorinclex, Voice of Hunger
"Humans and machines working together can be fearsome indeed!"
—Arcum Dagsson
"Not again."
—Hans
Saltfield nomads call a sudden storm a "whitemane."


"My mother once told me angels sing their swords' names with each strike."
—Sisay, Captain of the *Weatherlight*

"I hear there are Bears—or spirits—that guard caravans passing through the forest."
—Gulsen, Abbey Matron
"Commander, what's the signal to attack?"
"You'll know."


The myr are like the Glimmervoid: blank canvases on which to build grand creations.


"Fire is always dancing, leaping and whirling, seeking more fuel. It never rests, so why should I?"
—Chandra Nalaar

When the Honden of Cleansing Fire was abandoned, its attendants swarmed Kamigawa to erode mortal will.
"Don't thank me. Thank nature for its wondrous designs!"





Fate will decide whether it's a bed or a tomb.
"I like burning and pillaging as much as anyone, but sometimes it's just easier to throw a rock and let the trolls do the work."
—Urik, Tuskeri raid leader
"We were chasing Lim-Dûl when the ridge in front of us suddenly crumbled. I can't believe it was mere coincidence."
—Lucilde Fiksdotter, Leader of the Order of the White Shield
Atarka goblins meet their demise as readily as their Temur counterparts did, but usually under big, winged shadows.



The detail really makes the monsters jump off the page.
"When you are gone, will anyone remember your story?"
—Unknown
"The Ojutai are my favorite victims. They have so much knowledge to lose."
—Asmala, Silumgar sorcerer
"It was a sight of pain and awe—a twisted forest, migrating across the salt plain in search of richer soil."
—Edahlis, greenseeker
"A system to direct the flow of Ravnica's entire water supply? Thinking a bit small, aren't we?"
—Trivaz, Izzet mage

"Inhale. Kill. Exhale."

"Do you smell something burning?"
"The sea gives up her dead as easily as the soil."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer

What could be more irresistible than death?
"With angels came mysteries."
—Tamiyo's journal


There is no fondness between the hound and its master. There is only a common appreciation of the hunt.
"The Harpers' movement grows, but it needs sunlight to blossom. We can be that light."
"Then inch by inch out of the grass rose up the head and spread hood of Nag, the big black cobra, and he was five feet long from tongue to tail."
—Rudyard Kipling, *The Jungle Books*
"Smash this city to pieces."
—Domri Rade

Throw stones, and throw away the world.
—Dwarven proverb

"I appreciate things that exceed expectations."
—Mizzix
"Some aspire to be mighty like the lion or the hydra. I am the parasite that feeds on them all."

"You were right, Ixalan is a paradise," said Saheeli. "Mostly because you're here."




To renew the land, plow the land.
To destroy the land, do nothing.
—Druids' saying

"The brood spread far faster than we could kill it. I fear the worst is yet to come."
—*The War Diaries*
Other birds collect twigs for their nests. Magpies collect jewels for theirs.

Anger can empower those who embrace it.

It's so hard to find good help these days.
Ral's storm crackled with mystical detections: Planeswalkers were infiltrating Ravnica.
White as starlight on snow, it appears only on the eve of the winter solstice.

Tocasia brushed the gears and cogs from the table. There, before two wide-eyed brothers, she began a lesson on raw elemental magic.
"There is no justice when some profit and others go without."
Tedious research made the Sages of the College of Lat-Nam adept in repairing broken artifacts.
"All your steel won't protect you if your will is weak."

Consulate engineers have developed safe methods of harvesting aether, but renegades aren't always so careful.
"The Filigree Texts do not compel you to act in accordance with their precepts. They only specify the consequences should you fail."
—Lodus of the Ethersworn

Call it the thinking mage's version of brute force.

"Why would I ever want to look away?"
Fire never dies alone.
"My servants take pains for your pleasure, and take pleasure in your pain!"
—Rakdos


"Everything the wise woman learned she wrote in a book, and when the pages were black with ink, she took white ink and began again."
—Karn, silver golem



The only sound was the gentle clicking of the faeries' wings. Then those intruders who were still standing turned and fled. One thing was certain: they didn't think the scryb were very funny anymore.






He doesn't know why the Cho-Arrim fight the Mercadians, but he's happy to bash heads for them anyway.





The landbound envy the birds' ultimate freedom in the sky.

The Orzhov are not the only religious tradition on Ravnica, nor the oldest.
Hatred outlives the hateful.
"Smash this city to pieces."
—Domri Rade
"As I contemplate what is, I dive ever deeper into the depths of possibility. Then I set an experiment in motion and watch the truth rise to the surface."
Earth Elementals have the eternal strength of stone and the endurance of mountains. Primordially connected to the land they inhabit, they take a long-term view of things, scorning the impetuous haste of short-lived mortal creatures.
The mine's riches never end, nor do the moans of the spirits doomed to haunt them.
"The southern fortress taken by invaders? Heh, sure . . . when elephants fly."
—Brezard Skeinbow, captain of the guard


In beauty-obsessed Lys Alana, one cut of her blade means the difference between a high society feast and raking through the dungheap for scraps.
She remembers every word spoken, from the hero's oath to the baby's cry.
Each bronze disk on its harness is an offering from a young Temur hunter, a sign of respect to the spirits of the wild.
The parklike Cabaretti grounds offer rest, food, and the perfect place to shake off a tail.




When the bey runs, match his stride.
—Viashino saying
"From up here we can drop rocks and arrows and more rocks!" "Uh, yeah boss, but how do we get down?"
It's up to you if you enter their woods—and up to them if you leave.

Thunderscape masters release familiars to help guide their apprentices down the thunderscape path.
Life is eternal. A lifetime is ephemeral.


Everything the kami had done, they did with more force. Gentle breezes became typhoons, rolling rivers turned to crushing rapids, and gentle growth became overnight masses of thorns and vines.





"My greatest hope is that you will surpass me in every way, consigning my name to some forgotten corner of history."



"If you had just one wish, what would it be? Gold, or angel song? Finding a lost love, or finding your way back home? Let me sing a song about one wish that came true . . ."
—Ellywick Tumblestrum


"As we have learned from Kolaghan, to ruin is to rule."
—Shensu, Kolaghan rider
Each configuration reveals a potential future.
A goblin raid is a delicate gambit—a blend of stealth, precision, and screaming death.
Some say the knowledge lost during the Ritual of Rebuking is returned through the well's waters.

"MY PRIMARY FUNCTION IS TO FOLD INFLATABLE TUBES INTO JOY."
"Give thy ration to thy mount, if the road be long. So sayeth the bey."

His mind was lost long before his flesh.

The flash of his lance projects the pure radiance of his honor.
"Move, you wretched thing! You're scaring the hurdas!"
—Bruse Tarl, Goma Fada nomad





"The rules of logic and order have already made the choice for you."
—Isperia


"Please do not engage in debates on the nature of reality with the robot staff."
—Astrotorium sign
Ashnod invented several torture techniques that could make victims even miles away beg for mercy as if the End had come.

The Order of Saint Traft found new strength with Sigarda's support.




As the Simic released more of their krasis experiments, they required new habitats, always at the expense of the locals.


"They say nothing lasts forever. I say everything lasts forever, just not in the form you may be accustomed to."
—Vraska
Nature grows solutions to its problems.

"Here."
"Life can never be *too* good."
Some timelines forever fray, branch, and intermingle. Others end abruptly.
Only the patrol's armor was found, so tainted with the acrid smell of sudden death that it could never be worn again.
Amid rumors of war, the third act of *The Absolution of the Guildpact* was quickly rewritten as a tragedy.



"The mighty rely solely on their strength. They are shocked when we do the same."
—Tars Olan, kor world-gift
"Our lives are connected by divine law. The truth of this will be made evident in time."
—Zedruu the Greathearted



By the sixth day of darkness, the lake was more blood than water.

"Lies and deceit do yield results, but legitimate authority is the ultimate form of control."
—Meloku the Clouded Mirror
"Rats, rats, rats Hundreds, thousands, millions of them, and every one a life."
—Bram Stoker, *Dracula*

The Izzet specialize in unnatural disaster.

"To hide the truth is more than folly—it is fatal."
—Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi heretic
Bears aren't always as strong and as mean as you imagine. Some are even stronger and meaner.

Entrepreneurs have attempted to sell the water, but to no avail. Whatever magic it contains disappears upon bottling.




"It is our duty to endure."
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
Baby dragons can't figure out humans—if they didn't want to be killed, why were they made of meat and treasure?

The forest can seem like a dense maze. Those who travel the canopy know otherwise.

Squee bounced up and down. "I sees a horsey, an' a piggy, an' a—"
"If you don't shut up," hissed Mirri, "you'll see a kidney and a spleeny."





In life, they were a motley crew: farmers, lords, cutpurses, priests. In death, they are united in singular, benevolent purpose.
"The flow is diverted. Your path is clear. What are you waiting for—the cave to bid you welcome?"
—Maizah Shere, Tazeem lullmage






"Let go of your memories and be reborn."
—Argent Etchings, plate 106, passage 27

A full coffin is like a full coffer—both are attractive to thieves.
On Naya, ambition and treachery are scarce, hunted nearly to extinction by the awe owed to terrestrial gods.



2019 Europe Legacy Champion
"Leshrac, my liege, grant me the power I am due."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer

"If that brain can't figure out the secret of the serum, then add more brains."
—Rhmir, Hand of the Augur
"No one chooses to be stitched together into a skaab. If it could speak, it would beg for its own destruction."
—Thalia, Knight-Cathar
"The forest is my cover and I hold it close. In such a tight embrace, there is no room for wickedness."

It would be unfortunate if the key fell into the wrong hands.
Time is a marvelous plaything.
All Auriok children know the tale, "Bolgri and the Long Day of Squashing."

"'Technologically-Advanced People-Pleasing Entertainment Robot', eh? Nice hat. Would be a shame if something happened to it."
—"Brims" Barone, midway mobster
"The volcanic winds make a maze of the skies of Jund. If we mean to invade, we must first learn their invisible paths."



Those who find death under the black sun's shadow cannot escape its pull.
No part goes to waste.
"Here lies Gond, hero of Safehold Taldwen. May he ever guide our quest."

Does it reflect the future that once was or the past that can never be?





Just a small touch of magic can harness the debilitating power of Urborg's poisonous winds.

Myra doesn't pay the vampires to smile—but only because guests found it off-putting.








Bulgo paused, puzzled. What was that rustling sound, and why did he feel so stiff? And how could his *feet* be so thirsty?
Its web is woven so tightly that not even geists can avoid capture.
Avacyn's holy warriors kept hope alive in her darkest hours. Now they will carry that hope across Innistrad.
A good memory is no match for a good scribe.




"My commands shall echo forever in their dusty skulls."


"Hi! ni! ya! Behold the man of flint, that's me!/ Four lightnings zigzag from me, strike and return." —Navajo war chant





"We gather the past from surface dwellers and sell it right back to them."
"First through the Riftstone was Genesis—and the world was lifeless no more."
—*Scroll of Beginnings*
Orzhov churches don't pass the plate for collection. They charge for admission.
Every branch a crossroads, every vine a swift steed.

Six feet of earth muffled his cries.
"The lands of the God-Pharaoh are suffused with his breath."




"Death might come tomorrow, but today—today I am alive."
Few things are more valuable than time or money—and Leovold has plenty of both.


Kongming and Lu Su tricked Wei troops into shooting over 100,000 arrows at them to later use against the Wei at Red Cliffs.


There is no shelter from this storm, its rain of fists, or the thunderous cackles of bloodlust.
His victories speak for him.


"I'd rather be caught red-handed than leave empty-handed!"


"Where is it written that beasts must cause pain?"
—Delif, *Ponderings*

The best presents are impossible to regift.
No one in the Conclave acts alone.
"These lowlands were formed thousands of years ago by behemoth Indath—its final footsteps before vanishing into the sea."
—*Tales of the Ozolith*








The Astrotorium's express lane is practically its own ride.

The passionate intensity of the Ghitu tempered by the cool insight of Tolarian training.


Magic often masters those who cannot master it.


"Cradle your rage close to your heart and nurture your grudge with hatred that you may unleash upon your foes a dragon's fury."
—Tomor, dragonspeaker shaman


Mishra's nightmares of Phyrexia rang with screams of agony and groans of twisted metal. The sounds stayed with him long after he awoke.


The goblin word for "vacation" translates roughly to "a battered landscape of noise and violence."
"When the bony terminus gets too large, it's shed from the tail in coinciding periods of heightened aggression and hunger."
—Simic research notes
"My new design has lightweight plating specially cultivated from heretics' spare tissues."
—Izathel, priest of the Annex




"Let the flames ignore the sinless."

"His body belongs to Bant now. His soul? I honestly don't know. I expect it belongs to the angels."
—Rafiq of the Many


Those who believed the city of Kroog would never fall to Mishra's forces severely underestimated the might of his war machines.

"Yarok grieves within the waste
Of Bala Ged's corrupted land."
—*Lament for Bala Ged*, stanza 1
"That which would be a fatal mutation in any other species is merely a source of new powers. I am intrigued, yet too fearful to examine it more closely."
—Rukarumel, field journal
He stands in the shadow of his lord, Geth, drinking in the dark energies of the Vault.
Sometimes death comes knocking. Sometimes it tears down the walls.
Beauty appears in strange places for those with eyes to see it.


The God-Pharaoh's most devoted took it upon themselves to follow his example.



"Hup, two, three, four,
Dunno how to count no more."

A spirit is both fettered and free—bound in some ways to its previous existence, yet able to transcend much of the corporeal.
Vampires don't consider patience a virtue nor gluttony a sin.


"Isn't she the cutest thing you've almost seen?"
—Doen, purveyor of exotic pets



A weapon of darkness for a warrior of light.
Ravaged by decades of war, the land struck back with primal, blinding fury.





"Come to us, with your lightning. Come to us, with your thunder. Serve us with your strength, and smite our foes with your power."
—Steinar Icefist, Balduvian shaman


The crystal pulsed with the power of Teferi's planeswalker spark. Had Jhoira given him a blessing or a curse?



"How easily your flames are quenched."
—Baral, Chief of Compliance
Monkeys three, monkeys through.



It's more like a hard day of lunch with a work break between shifts.
It powers the dreams of Ghirapur.
"Temper, temper"
—Ertai, wizard adept

When the gorilla playfully grabbed the wurm's tail, the wurm doubled back and playfully ate the gorilla's head.


"The most delicious ingredients are often the most dangerous to obtain."
—Asmoranomardicadaistinaculdacar, *The Underworld Cookbook*
"Life ... is not ... a race."




Her centuries-long search is ended.




Drink deep, and your thoughts will flow freely.
Some clouds heed no wind.


Once a year, Akrasa holds a joust that draws knights and their leotaus from every nation on Bant. The prize is an Akrasan sigil, but the true reward is the angel's kiss.


The built-in obstacles force competitors to think three moves ahead.


There's always another tomorrow.


The man who rose up to fight was not the same man knocked down.
"There was no trace
Of aught on that illumined face . . . ."
—Samuel Taylor Coleridge, "Phantom"

"I am confined by sleep and defined by nightmare."
—Crovax
"Don't be so quick to reclaim the thawing lands. They might have acquired a taste for freedom."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter
The owls learn of mana from the mages who know it best.

First your whole life flashes before your eyes. Then you have considerable time to reflect on every regret as you plummet.

Sidisi hated to limit her options.


There are many ruins, but there used to be many more.
Toren had stepped on a lot of bugs during his life, so he couldn't help feeling embarrassed when a bug stepped on him.

You are who you eat.

"Be happy when you see a puca shaped like mischief. It's far better than one shaped like death."
—Dindun of Kulrath Mine

As Gideon watched the initiate murder his crop-mate, his admiration of the city of Naktamun gave way to horror.
Where scavengers nest in hollowed-out rib cages and chittering crawlers peer from empty eye sockets, few dare to trespass.




"Your life serves a higher purpose now: ensuring the continuation of my own."

The Kargan tribes share legends of the victory their ancestors won over the Akoum Skyclave, and its horrendous cost.

"The ground under our feet is a record of every slight against the world, to be avenged at a time of its choosing."
—Gavi, nest warden
Centuries ago, a barbarian laid his rage to rest.
"Your nightmares inspire me, Dack."

It treads on feet of coals and strikes with the force of a volcano.


"No more wretched fate is there than to waste away. If you are slain, your ghost may at least avenge itself upon your killer. But what release is there for one slain by Time?"
—Ilromov, traveling storyteller

Speed and fire are always a deadly combination.
"Here you lie then, Ugin. The corpses of worlds will join you in the tomb."
—Sorin Markov

"Here sprouted the first seedling of Argoth. Here the last tree will fall."
—Gamelen, Citanul elder
An ancient device recovered from a thawing glacier high in the Karplusan mountains.
"Unwelcome thoughts crowd my mind. Are they my own madness, or the whispers of another?"
—Sarkhan Vol

Rather than sheltering her young, the female Fungusaur often injures her own offspring, thereby ensuring their rapid growth.



Saffiyah clapped her hands and twenty flying men appeared at her side, each well trained in the art of combat.
In a wave of spells called the Cursemute, Avacyn cleansed the world with divine fire.

Working with the best of intentions, its researchers unwittingly unleashed a plague of troubles upon Dominaria.

The Hekma may repel storms and monsters, but nothing holds back the heat of the suns.



"Their keen sense of smell draws them to the unnatural. To find one is a boon."
—Veka, hinterland inspector
"The hermit dies. The outcast dies. The lone wolf dies. Only those who stick together survive this world."
—Uros, Pendelhaven elder
"His energy is as boundless as the powerstones'."
—Rebbec, architect of ascension

Mirri and Gerrard have been the best of friends since they trained together under the maro-sorcerer Multani. A fierce and agile warrior, she rejoined Gerrard aboard the *Weatherlight* as his unofficial first mate shortly after he assumed command of the flying ship.
Although greatly prized among falconers, the Zephyr Falcon is capricious and not easily tamed.




"There is as much power in winter's chill as in summer's warmth."
"When the forest walks, it's too late to run."
—Horent, Khalni druid
"An elvish adventurer unearthed this stone in Jolrael's jungle. Now it's truly fit for display in one of her palaces."
—Isel, master carver



"In a town shaped by the subtle machinations and political intrigue of its guilds, it's reassuring to see a goblin waving his torch and screaming about some nonsense or other."
—Agrus Kos
Starke knew the voice was Takara's, but the venom was Volrath's.
"Passions can't be shackled by laws or mastered with logic. The choice is freedom or death."
—*Volume IV, The Book of Fire*


"Seeing you cower before me is its own reward."
The shaman rattles not to inspire a battle fury but to drown out the shrieks of those fleeing the Eldrazi.

"Abandon ship!"
On Jund, everything eventually ends up in something else's stomach.


All bow at its visitation—some in awe, some in honor, some in fear.

"The time of condemnation is at hand. Dusk washes over the world, and I consign you to eternal darkness!"






Murky Otarian tides hide the forgotten treacheries of the Phyrexian war.


Whether for good or ill, their arrival always means change.



The Thran learned to capture mana, but power inevitably escapes its bonds.
"If a boggart even dares breathe near one of my kin, I'll know. And I'll not be happy."



Thallids herd saprolings from place to place in search of detritus to feed them.
What doesn't grow, dies. And what dies grows the tarmogoyf.




"Take my blood if you want. Just don't take my gold!"

"Where I come from, stone stays on the ground."
—Tahngarth of the Weatherlight

In its territory, living is an affront.

Its swamp cousin may be meaner, but the vizzerdrix is much bigger.
Maybe a little *too* convincing.
"Class is in season."
Impressing a judge is one thing. Delighting a child is another.


On Naya, ambition and treachery are scarce, hunted nearly to extinction by the awe owed to terrestrial gods.




"Was it something I said?"
"I don't concern myself with my enemy's hopes. Hopes follow the tides. They will retreat soon enough."
—Ambassador Laquatus




"Here you lie then, Ugin. The corpses of worlds will join you in the tomb."
—Sorin Markov


"Yes, the farmers keep our soldiers fed. But why do they have to make every battlefield a pigpen?"
—Toothlicker Harj, orcish captain


As the Wu chief commander, Lu Meng conquered Shu-held Jingzhou in 219 by disguising soldiers as merchants on boats filled with hiding troops.
"I search for a vision of Zendikar that does not include the Eldrazi."
—Expedition journal entry
Paulo Vitor Damo da Rosa, World Champion XXVI

Tondo lost his very first duel and has spent his entire life trying to get even.

They evolved the ability to concentrate their neural activity into a single pulse, causing a disruptive but usually suicidal blast of psionic energy.
Autonomy is only skin deep.


Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.


"No one in her right mind would venture off the coast of Kjeldor during this season."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry

Depending on your point of view, the seal represents a proud guardian of the natural cycle or one who has sold her soul to darkness for eternal life.
The deadliest killers serve only those who are not afraid to die.
Fierce winds ripped across the tropical landscape. What they did not destroy with their fiery breath was washed away by torrential rain.
In the treetops, unseen by many, lurks chittering, skittering death.




"But no one heard the snake's gentle hiss for peace over the elephant's trumpeting of war."
—Afari, *Tales*

The fires of Zendikar are always hungry, and there is much on which they can feed.

"'Do you know, I always thought Unicorns were fabulous monsters, too? I never saw one alive before!' 'Well, now that we have seen each other,' said the Unicorn, 'if you'll believe in me, I'll believe in you.'" —Lewis Carroll
To a goblin, value is based on the four S's: shiny, stabby, smelly, and super smelly.

"It's time for the 'Smash, Smash' song!"

The hammer strikes. The Flame awakens.

"It has a quickness about it that seems unnatural for its large size, yet its hunger is about right."
—Endril, Kalonian naturalist
Zur remained aloof from Terisiare's suffering, intent only on his own perfection.

"Believe in the ideal, not the idol."
—Serra

"Your blood, your marrow, your spirit—all are mine."
—Mayvar, minion of Geth

"Enchant me with your tale-telling. Tell about Tree, Grass, River, and Wind. / Tell why Truth must fight with Falsehood, and why Truth will always win."
—"Love Song of Night and Day"


"I will never run out of new oceans to explore or new sea-dwellers to embrace as my own."
—Kiora

Those who hear its roar perish. The lucky ones only feel its fetid breath.

"I asked if they wanted to do things the easy way. I meant easy for me."
"Give up these unnatural weapons, these scrolls. Heart and mind and fist are enough."
—Zyd, Kamahlite druid

Klothys set out to mend the destiny of Theros, her fury guiding every stitch.

"I have been trapped in the lizard's lair for days. It seems to regard me as its child and will not let me leave."
—Aevar Borg, northern guide, journal entry
Some minds bend under pressure. Others break.

"(Z—>)90° — (E—N²W)90°t = 1"



Each day of their journey, Jandor opened the saddlebags and found them full of mutton, quinces, cheese, date rolls, wine, and all manner of delicious and satisfying foods.



As fickle as lightning, as slippery as an eel.





"Wasted potential surrounds us. Lend me that bauble, and let me see what it can be made to be."
A fruit must rot before its seed can sprout.
—Yavimaya saying

The lights in the cavern glow and fade, glow and fade in a rhythm that must have a deeper meaning, if only you can figure it out.
Nothing can quell the Oriq's thirst for the forbidden secrets of the past.
"It reflects the purity of Mirrodin-that-was."
—Koth of the Hammer
A weapon best suited for those with good aim and steady hands.


". . . the king's burning heart must be laid to rest at last. And furthermore . . ."
"It fell silently from the sky and broke the surface without a ripple. Was it even here at all?"
—Fisherman's journal

Those who bring nothing to the temple take nothing away.



"You've begun to understand the hedrons' true purpose," said Ugin. "The Eldrazi can be imprisoned.""And how did that work out last time?" asked Jace.



Midwife to mothers and leader to all.
"Your life was meaningless, but your death will glorify Yawgmoth."
—Tsabo Tavoc
Samite healers never mix their pungent elixir with sweetener or tea. The threat of a second dose is enough to get most warriors back on their feet.
Many have heard the slither of dragging armor and the soft squelch of its voice. But only its victims ever meet its icy gaze.

The imps' warbling cries echo through Phyrexia's towers like those of mourning doves in a cathedral.



"Every footfall on the forest floor is a heartbeat sending strength into my veins."

The Ramosian tradition is alive, but its namesake has long since been forgotten.

Autonomy is only skin deep.



Amonkhet's desiccated land thirsts for blood.
In a culture of beauty, the most beautiful are worshipped as gods.
It strides through the whitecover, mists in which even gargantuans can hide.
"Their origins are shrouded in mystery. I believe they are the protectors of the lost secrets of our world."
—Jilaya, Temur whisperer
Paulo Vitor Damo da Rosa, World Champion XXVI
Tawnos built it to be absolutely impermeable to any force inside. Luckily it worked for any force outside as well.
In Urborg, the instigators of each new rebellion are soaked in the blood of the last.
Every creature on Mirrodin is a lightning rod.
"The foot stone is connected to the ankle stone, the ankle stone is connected to the leg stone..."
—Song of the Artificer
Spot one ember beast, attack.
Spot a second, best fall back.
—Dwarven saying


Though the executioner did not speak, the villagers got the message.
"The clashing warriors turned to face O-Kagachi, the greatest kami, and their sigh of awe was their last breath."
—*Great Battles of Kamigawa*


"I'd build an entire fortress of them if I could."
—Mzali, Lighthouse archmage

The Phyrexian death machine awoke, its coldsteel heart imbuing it with sinister new power.
"They are deadly, and they are loyal. We can spare them a little blood."
—Harak, Malakir bloodwitch

Beneath the Tangle, the wurm tunnels stretch . . . wide as a stone's throw, long as forever, deep as you dare.
Nightscape masters don't stop at raising the spirit of a fallen battlemage. They raise the flesh along with it.
The massive dominate through might. The tiny survive with guile. Beware the tiny who become massive.


"Danger is my middle name. Also, I don't know how to spell."

"More horrible than their empty forms are their noble eyes. I dare not strike."
—Klattic, Boros legionnaire
The bolt struck with a flash, and there was a terrible sound, as of glass shattering, but the creature was unharmed.


"Behind every devil's mayhem lurks a demon's scheme."
—Rem Karolus, Blade of the Inquisitors

The soft creak of trees in the wind is not always cause for comfort.
"We will fight as they do: our flesh protected behind metal."
—Tae Aquil, Viridian weaponsmith


The sigil holds different meanings depending on its form and presentation. While some wear it as a sign of status, others wear it as a sign of debt.

"Controlling time ensures you need never look impulsive again."
—Teferi
"I have led ten thousand through these mists and never lost the way."
The wurms become so big, a single scale can be used as a roof for a human dwelling.
It's bad enough to be torn to pieces. It's worse by far to be torn from the world itself.
"In every one of you I see a hero's heart."
"Fly as an arrow through the trials, and never waver in your course."
—Oketra, god of solidarity


"Cities are a blight on the beauty of nature."
The shadows of death fall over everyone in the end.


"Strength in numbers? Right."
—Ib Halfheart, goblin tactician
2018 World Champion Javier Dominguez
The desert is a voracious beast, devouring both flesh and stone.
Unhappy with the creation of the wolfir, Rorica broke with her order and led a crusade against the "reformed werewolves."


"Before Yovus was cut down at Pranticle Peak, she performed which maneuver? Anyone? From the reading?"
One eye open to see the truth of the world. One eye covered to gaze at the goddess within.
"I bring a flood that nothing can withstand."

"You will be reimbursed for your donation."
"The reimbursement is spiritual."
—Temple signs





"When one of us prospers, the pride prospers."
—Jazal Goldmane
Sparks from Purphoros's forge fill the belly of every dragon.
The floating city of High and Dry hasn't yet sunk under the weight of gold, but it's not for want of trying.



The imp, unaware of its own odor, paused to catch its breath . . . and promptly died.
The mind is a beautiful bounty encased in an annoying bone container.
The strength of the one is the strength of the many.
"The seas are vast, but the skies are even more so. Why be content with one kingdom when I can rule them both?"
Fortune favors the ferocious.
The moans of the Death Pits were underscored by the chattering of imps, for whom the ship was cause for much discussion.

When the moon rises and the bloodlust takes hold, nothing matters but the kill.
The invader hoped he could survive the beast's jaws and emerge through its rotting skin.
"These eyes have shown me the flaws of flesh."
It wails of buried riches and the souls lost seeking them.
With the bloodchiefs annihilated in the fight between the free and enthralled, the swamps around Malakir are full of dangerous, young vampires eager to make their marks.


A hero fails, a martyr falls. Time twists and destinies interchange.


What some see as "distracted" is really "fathoming the unfathomable."

A visit to the Deeproot Tree and its ancient spring replenishes a merfolk's connection to nature.


The playful kami reserved its greatest blessings for those who brought not wealth or rare delicacies, but particularly amusing trinkets.
All around Emrakul, life re-formed in her image.

"What is this that is neither future nor past?"
The Aurora replaced the changelings' innocence with malice and their curiosity with hunger.
"All knowledge has its price."
—Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen














"I teach the cubs how to kill the two-legs quickly, and why it's best for the pride."

For the necro-alchemist, any puzzle can be solved with intelligence and harvested body parts.


In the autumn, she casts her seeds across the streets below, and come spring, her children rise in service to the Conclave.

High-wire injuries are down 95%. Spider-related injuries are up 3000%.





Havoc is a small price to pay for data.
With the horrible mask, Lagfrak the Low terrorized the countryside. But then he met Il-Chunt, the mask's model . . . .
The Golgari don't bury their dead. They plant them.
The tide of battle favors those who can swim.

"Nothing could ruin such a fine day, Saffi."



Phyrexia wastes nothing. Its food chain is a spiraling cycle.
Anger can empower those who embrace it.




Many sigils, one purpose.







"You don't survive in the wild by standing in plain sight."
—Garruk Wildspeaker
Reluctant to meet face to face, the leaders of the ten guilds prefer to do official business through a go-between immune to bribes and threats.
"We need not fear the forces of the air; I've yet to see a spider without an appetite."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter
"Drench these golden streets in the blood of our enemies."

Everyone is welcome in the floating Serran cities, though few but the most faithful attempt the ascent.
"Dromar is the wings of the ur-dragon, sweeping away all opposition."
A witch once foretold that Glavin would die surrounded by unimaginable wealth. Until that moment, he'd taken that to mean he'd be rich.



Though Serra is long dead, her legacy of grace and kindness will live on forever.




"The cruelest monsters inspire the greatest tales. The greatest tales inspire the cruelest hunters."
—Rielle, the Everwise
While elder vampires select their meals with care, the newly sired frenzy at the first whiff.


It puts the "vortex" in "flavortext."




"Temper, temper."
—Ertai, wizard adept

Mirko Vosk hunted anyone with knowledge of the maze, draining the chances of the other guilds.
Will's quick thinking meshed with Rowan's raw power to bring down the Blood Avatar.
"Death is no excuse for disobedience."
—Liliana Vess
Most books simply deliver knowledge. This one expects some in return.
"At harvest are seeds of next year sown."


Travelers' tales claim that hydras bite off their own heads to make themselves deadlier.

While Kaya is guildmaster, Teysa waits patiently at the center of the Orzhov web of power.



The fatal flaw in every plan is the assumption that you know more than your enemy.

He wished for growth, but not for a way to control it.


"Strike me once, shame on you. Strike me twice . . . Well, let's just see if you can."
—Kara Vrist, Neurok agent



The Vanto Beatdown began as an improvised dance-battle at the Rose Room lounge. When word spread of how many were slain at the first event, it became a citywide obsession.

"Just tell us how many you want and get out of the way."

No body is ready for this kind of power.


Appointed by the kha himself, members of the tribunal ensure all disputes are settled with the utmost fairness.
"Don't become so enthralled with magic that you forget you can fly without it."
A vertical scream pierces the night air and echoes doom through the clouds.


"I carry the light of truth. Do not pity those it blinds, for they never had eyes to see."


Never doubt a dragon just because of its size.
"Despite their bravado, mortals are fragile. If Zendikar is to endure, its lords must save it."
—Drana, Kalastria bloodchief
"Master your mind, or I shall master it for you."
Elven tap is the official language of three very obnoxious planets.
"I have seen the faces of my dead friends among that grim band, and I can bear no more."
—Lucilde Fiksdotter,
leader of the Order of the White Shield





"It no longer surprises me what shows up in our raid of a Rakdos revue."
—Janik Bara, Wojek captain
"Double or nothing."



"To care for yourself, cultivate the world. To care for the world, cultivate yourself."

"Our coven finds strength in nature and purpose in serving our communities."
A deafening roar arose as the fury of an enormous vertical river supplanted our serenity. Eddies turned into whirling geysers, leveling everything in their path.
Few Cabal fighters fear death. They fear what follows it.
"What we call magic is nothing more than hope crystallized into a destination."
—Perisophia the philosopher
"The entire murder scene was covered in dripping, oozing slime. No need for a soothsayer to solve that one."
—Pel Javya, Wojek investigator
"If you hear a groaning noise in the cellar, don't investigate. Don't split up. Just lock the door and barricade it."
—Emili, guard captain

"There is no greater folly than standing against me."
—Nicol Bolas
"Dead or alive, my creations are stronger than Jin-Gitaxias's septic minions."
—Vorinclex, Voice of Hunger


I tell you, there was so many arrows flying about you couldn't hardly see the sun. So I says to young Angus, "Well, at least now we're fighting in the shade!"
"Honor this place, for our children's children will stand here and speak these same words again."
—Ayli, Kamsa cleric
The ground erupted in time with the hedron's thrum, a dirge of the last days.

It nurtures its masters' glorious future.





"Birth and death are both reversible."
—Nicol Bolas
The magic of the River Heralds is so great that even a single shaman can fend off a pirate landing party.
His blessing is a curse.

"I gladly offer my weapon and my life to the glory of my sovereign."


Enter those with the vision to create and the daring to release their creations.
"I'm too modest a wizard to reveal the full extent of my abilities."
—Ertai, wizard adept
"No sun or fire can warm my blood quite like a war flare."
—Urut Barzeel, Mardu hordechief
A thing of Serra's realm exists only by the grace of her followers' faith.








"I had hoped to instill in it the loyalty of a guard dog, but with fire's power comes its unpredictability."
—Maggath, Sardian elementalist

"When the door drops, give them a haste of the Emperor's fire!"
—Commissar Yarrick
"Of course I know what 'eponymous' means! It's a little horse."
—Krizz, gate guard

"A rare and fascinating phenomenon."
—Tamiyo
Li'l Giri tracked the robotic villain with silent steps. Just as the monster was about to eat the child . . .


The sky split, and the air crackled and roiled. The Phyrexian invasion of Dominaria had finally begun.



They are the voice of the wild, crying out with nature's fury and bringing forth its primeval might.


Venser wondered if it could still be called a teleportation spell if the destination is oblivion.


Goblins were first to see the potential of hedrons in the fight against the Eldrazi, for the magical stones came ready-made with pointy bits.

In matters of life and death, he trusts his gut.




A sip of recollection, an ocean of regrets.
The scarred rubble around the gate is testament to past meetings of the Clans, summits that inevitably devolved into brawls.


"Two or three tons of rock can really get you down—and keep you there."
—Kamahl, pit fighter


"My destiny is to save others so their destinies may be achieved."

Designed by the Magic community



"Blood is constant. Every drop I drink, someone must bleed."
—Vradeen, vampire nocturnus



"Through the blood of the wicked, we shall be redeemed. Let us pray."
The necratog can always dig up a meal.
"Death is such an exquisite sensation."
—Tsabo Tavoc, Phyrexian general
Riding the goat
—Dwarven expression meaning
"a foolhardy act of bravery"



Entry 855: There's more to Avacyn's madness . . .
They could agree on one thing only: one of them must die.
"No rest. No mercy. No matter what."
—Memorial inscription
The cold snap killed off most of the heat-loving hellions . . . leaving only the strongest alive to breed.

Mounted cinders circle the blasted peak at Kulrath, hunting the Extinguisher.
"You think your weaving as beautiful as mine? Let me show you the true meaning of the craft."

Courage is neither a shield nor an axe, but the will to wield both in defense of the innocent.
It spilled the blood of one elder dragon. In Gideon's hands, it may yet taste another's.


Yell for help, and that may answer.





"Every sword drawn to defend is an angelic blade, guided to justice by an angelic hand."
—Auriok proverb
Reinforcements . . . or refreshments?

It chews open Mirrodin's husk and feeds on the outpouring of energy.
Minds, like mountains, are never so grand and mighty that they can't be reduced to dust.
They are cautious with their body language and facial expressions. Any stray movement could betray the positions of the troops they protect and cost many lives.
"Take my blood if you want. Just don't take my gold!"
"When your father is Dean Embrose, second best really isn't an option."


In the roiling depths of the Eye of Terror, the bloodthirsty hordes of Chaos Marines plot the downfall of their loyalist brethren.
Mklthd had always hated crowds . . . and they had always hated him.



There's no prepared like overprepared.
Is it an amalgamation of faded memories or the projection of a half-remembered dream? Neither answer offers any comfort.







The endless spectral procession crashed against the Envoy's hiding spot. "What are you," they taunted, "fighter or failure? Give in, daughter of the dead, and join your ancestor in eternal slumber."
"It was a strange morning. When we awoke, we found our trees transformed. We didn't know whether to water them or polish them."
—Pulan, Bant orchardist
The Sagu Jungle's thick undergrowth conceals even the largest predators—if they wish to remain hidden.




As erratic and turbulent as a summer squall.
"When one has witnessed the unspeakable, 'tis sometimes better to forget."
—Vervamon the Elder

Sent by their noble parents to toughen up and learn something of the world's past, Urza and Mishra instead uncovered Terisiare's future.
The spell fell upon the crowd like a dragon, ancient and full of death.
"The bolts of our ballistae smashed into the monstrous thing, but our hopes died in our chests as its gears continued turning."
—Sevti Mukul, *The Fall of Alsoor*
Where storm and spellcraft converge.



"Well, the good news is that sound wasn't the volcano erupting . . ."
—George, Coalition scout
"No doubt the arbiters would put you away, after all the documents are signed. But I will have justice now."
—Alovnek, Boros guildmage


Lead, follow, or run around like crazy.


"Yes, I think 'toast' is an appropriate description."
—Jaya Ballard, task mage
Many minds, a single madness.
Life or death: which is the illusion?"
—Naimah, Femeref philosopher






Mines became common as cities during the days of the artificers.
"Time to let the dead be dead."
—Kaya, to Teysa
Amidst the darkest ashes grow the strongest seeds.

"Sit. Fetch. Devastate."
There are few things as motivating as a swarm of bees.

"Throw rocks at 'em! Throw spears at 'em! Throw Furt at 'em!"
"Seclusion is only an option for the strong."
—Sorin Markov


The remnants of Innistrad's corrupted angelic hosts collapsed to form the Flight of Nightmares.

"I will not rest until every vestige of the Consulate—every banner, flag, and standard—has fallen."


Telepathy changes minds, necromancy changes lives, but geomancy changes the world.
It's hard to argue with a force made of divine will.
Although long since dead, the banished dissenters finally took their vengeance.





"Some of the other guys dared me to touch it, but I knew it weren't no ordinary hunk o' rock."
—Norin the Wary
"A might spell can be handy against baloths, giants, kraken, the Roil—or if you lose your bearings in the woods."
—Chadir the Navigator

Nomad youths aspire to one of two roles in the tribe: priest or warrior. Their secret dream is to become both.



"I'll have my revenge if I have to call on every force from above and below."
"Through even our darkest days, we must never cease creating. Each new invention brings value to the world, be it beauty, utility, or both."
—Rashmi, aether-seer
"Wisdom is not the counting of all the drops in a waterfall. Wisdom is learning why the water seeks the earth."

A single fear unleashes a torrent of nightmares.
"And if I'm lying," he began . . .

"An indrik's howl has destructive power much subtler than that of its crushing foot. The sound is mundane, but inaudible vibrations scatter and sunder magical contrivances."
—Simic research notes

"Yes, I think 'toast' is an appropriate description."
—Jaya Ballard, task mage

"Be careful, dear. Some people deserve their curses."
—Marawen, barrow witch
The continent of Guul Draz is a geothermal swampland reeking of heat and decay.
"The nim raid our homes without warning. We must defend our homes without hesitation."
"This still doesn't make you the brains of the operation."
—Ghoulcaller Gisa
"For a moment, Reito's defenders regrouped. Then wailing kami reappeared to send them scattering like flocks of frightened birds."
—*Great Battles of Kamigawa*
"Is this what you found, Tamiyo?"
—Jace Beleren

Dozens of spells known only to the Auriok elders were lost, but the next generation, galvanized by war, devised even more potent magic.
For the first time in her life, Vraska tried to prevent death.
"The higher the mind soars, the greater its understanding of the law."
—Isperia
The swarm seemed unmoved by the artificial slivers' destruction. "They clearly were not the leaders," Hanna cursed. "I guess we'll have to do this the hard way."
He wears his infamy like a fine silk shirt.



An avatar he sculpts of anger and flame.

Slicing girders, rescuing trapped workers, killing gigantic rust flies—one tool does it all!
Where the holy light of the angels has shone, only purity remains.

"We must all make sacrifices for the good of Innistrad."
—Sorin Markov



"This 'standing windstorm' can hold us off indefinitely? Ridiculous!" Saying nothing, she put a pinch of salt on the table. With a bang she clapped her hands, and the salt disappeared, blown away.
"I see you've learned nothing, Chandra. You'd still put a match to something rather than understand it."
As the bounty on Massacre Girl rose, so did the number of imitators.
They moved like apes, but a thousand times swifter, prying into every corner, leaving pawprints of ash.

"There's a certain beauty in destruction. Some will consider this war a masterpiece."
—Ashnod


"All will know of your crimes."





"I will flay the skin from your flesh and the flesh from your bones and scrape your bones dry. And still you will not have suffered enough."
—Greven *il*-Vec, to Gerrard

Far from human eyes, birds flit between vivid blossoms in a hidden paradise.
Eidren, perfect of Lys Alana, ordered hundreds of trees uprooted and rearranged into a pattern he deemed beautiful. Thus the Gilt-Leaf Wood was born.
Every dwarven artisan spends the first hundred years of their life forging a single weapon and infusing it with runic magic.
These are its last days. Better to grow broad and heavy. Better that the enemy is crushed beneath its carcass.

When a werewolf changes for the first time, that first howl is said to echo through the wilds till moonset.

Battle doesn't need a purpose; the battle is its own purpose. You don't ask why a plague spreads or a field burns. Don't ask why I fight.
The goblins have forty-two different words for "ow."

"No signs of any suspicious activity. Yet."
"In this new world, I have seen the once-devout rhoxes take up arms with the savages of Jund. I would be offended, but I see the wisdom in their choice."
—Gernan, Dawnray archer
A viashino's overlapping scales form a buffer against Shiv's ash-flecked winds and a slippery target for goblin pikes.
Knight-stewards guard the Sun-Dappled Court, a grove of immense, sculptured olive trees that represent Valeron's twelve noble families.

"Bats are welcome to eat thousands of my pets. I have multitudes more that will ultimately eat the bats."
—Izoni
"Such a beautiful place for a stroll."
—Liliana Vess

A humble appearance belies a master's skill.
As insubstantial, and as powerful, as the wind that carries it.


Kediss loves molten metal, searing flames, and head scratches.




"He makes up his own laws, and that's dangerous to all who love peace and prosperity. Kill him on sight."
—Mirela, Azorius hussar

Avacyn's return did not rid him of his desire for revenge.

Most goblins leave behind a wake of destruction. A few goblins take one with them.
"The cathars have their swords, the inquisitors their axes. I prefer the 'diplomatic' approach."
—Terhold, archmage of Drunau

"Stone and thought fade into ruin. Only the wind in the leaves will endure."
—Tomb inscription
"Nature is not always gentle or kind, but all life begets life."
—Marwyn of Llanowar
"It was a strange morning. When we awoke, we found our trees transformed. We didn't know whether to water them or polish them."
—Pulan, Bant orchardist
Built on the very ground where the Ten signed the Guildpact, the tower is a monument to the past and a reminder of who holds power in the present.




Dosan sat in repose for many hours. He made no motion, no sound at all. And as he sat, nature revealed itself to him.
Fairgoers were delighted to find that even outside the fairgrounds, Ghirapur was a city of wonders.
"Werewolves are an unholy mix of a predator's instinct and a human's hatred."
—Alena, trapper of Kessig


"Stop bleeding. It's distracting."
—Astarion, the Decadent


The priest cast Xantcha to the ground. "It is defective. We must scrap it."
Reach out and torch someone.

The sphinxes began to speak only after the Second Sun aligned. They whispered dire warnings, though no one listened.

Bones scattered around us joined to form misshapen bodies. We struck at them repeatedly—they fell, but soon formed again, with the same mocking look on their faceless skulls.


Once it consecrated the dead. Now it desecrates them.

"And topples round the dreary west A looming bastion fringed with fire."
—Alfred, Lord Tennyson, "In Memoriam"
"Give me eight walkers, I'll give you the city."
—Dovin Baan

"The construction of a defense is not accomplished by adding bricks."
—Jace Beleren

"You mess with one of us, you mess with all of us!"
Her children are ever part of her.
"My power is as vast as the plains, my strength is that of mountains. Each wave that crashes upon the shore thunders like blood in my veins."
—Dakkon Blackblade, Memoirs

Cinders carry an ancestral grudge that makes them slow to trust and quick to retaliate.

It wails of buried riches and the souls lost seeking them.
He ate them out of house and home and shed and barn and flock and herd.
The strongest pack has the fiercest pups.
"Aether is the soul of Kaladesh, and all souls should be free."

He experiences every emotion with passion and repays every slight with vengeance.

"We expected the Argothians to stand their ground. We didn't expect the ground itself to stand."
—Myrel, Shield of Argive


At the edge of the Mephidross, Phyrexia's influence seeps into life and land.
"It'll get us to the portal, but I can't guarantee what it'll do to the ship."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator
"Obey!"


"The cyclops shrugged off savage blows, but casual insults made him weep."
—Azeworai, "The Cyclops who Couldn't"



"I prefer loyalty to be a matter of respect, not of magic. But one does what one must."
@-Kaalia of the Vast


Bulgo paused, puzzled. What was that rustling sound, and why did he feel so stiff? And how could his *feet* be so thirsty?

"When you hear thunder on a cloudless day, take cover and brace for the coming of the storm herd."
—Skotov, Tin Street basket vendor


The storm rages and the earth breaks.

The horde grows with each assault.
"Conquering your first world is the hardest, after all. My power grew as I moved from world to world, taking anything that would make the next taking easier."
—Ob Nixilis

As the struggle raged for control of the Immortal Sun, the world grew dark under a blood-red sky.


She cares little for leaders or loyalties, so long as the battle rages on.


"All you gotta do is panic with purpose. And plead your innocence with purpose. And have your mom bail you out with purpose."




"The Skyclaves are our inheritance."
"We slew the last dragon ages ago. Now we fight the *real* monsters."
Wounded soldiers looked up, grateful for her appearance. But she passed over them, her eyes firmly on their foe.
"Which would you like first, the insult or the injury?"

Even the putrid muscles of the dead can provide strength to those loathsome enough to consume them.

The elves alone preserve the few shreds of beauty left. There is no one else who cares.






"The Ancestor Dragon appeared atop the clouds, amid shattering mountains and sundering earth."
—Jiang Yanggu's travelogue




In bringing life to Mirrodin, Memnarch was more successful than he knew—for Mirrodin began to take on a life of its own.

The gatekeepers are so fastidious that even the winds must wait to pass.
Like so many obstacles in life, the Wall of Opposition is but an illusion, held fast by the focus and belief of the one who creates it.

"Move! When the powerstone blows, that behemoth will be nothing but a hole in the ground."
—Ashnod, to Hajar
The only traces it leaves are silent gusts and prodigious amounts of wreckage.
Viashino lack the majesty of their draconic ancestors, but they lash out with equal rage and twice the spite.


A touch, not comforting, but of death.
"You'd think that their big glowing eyes would be almost hypnotic to look at. In fact, it's the other way around—they are entranced by nearly everything they see."
—Balecki, Spellwild druid
"Which do you think is a better deterrent: a moat of water or one of fire?"
—Chandra Nalaar



On Evos Isle, the swift and formidable aven enforce the will of the ruling sphinxes.

"True power never dies, but lies awake, waiting for its name to be spoken."
—*The Eldest Reborn*



With limited resources and near unlimited time, Kerrick used parts from one beast to build another.




"I never liked you. Now get up—we have a fight to finish."



One must reap before one can sow.

Empires rise and fall, but evil is eternal.
"When the land is angry, so are they."
—Nissa Revane
"The dreams of a child fulfilled:
the wind on my brow,
the air 'neath my feet."
—Arnjlot Olasson, Sky Mage

Takedowns in Valor's Reach are never meant to be lethal, but that doesn't mean they won't be incredibly painful.


"I feel like chicken tonight!"

Trained in the arts of stealth, royal assassins choose their victims carefully, relying on timing and precision rather than brute force.

"The day of reckoning is coming. Knowledge of the amphin may be our only refuge."
The rot farmer's first rite of passage is to craft a pair of work stilts.



Being engulfed is just the beginning of the nightmare.
They became a single entity, a phalanx in the Temple of Triumph standing against a host of enemies.

"These runes are tough enough without the distraction," Ertai muttered, one eye on the drake.
Oona's song is like a twisted dinner chime. All the faeries return home, but it is Oona who feasts@-on the stolen dreams and rumors they serve her.

Using tyrite from a fallen Cosmos monster, Koll forged a weapon to awe Halvar himself.

"Flea circus? No, flee circus!"
The assassin sees only throats and hears only heartbeats.

"It is the changing of perception that is important."
—Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen




Scholars possess such lofty knowledge that it shouldn't be surprising when they fall.
"I can call an army to my side in the blink of an eye. Best not blink."
In the Krosan Forest, you've got to keep an eye out for the squirrels.
"Do the innocent pay for the crimes of the guilty? Of course they do. That's the fate of the weak."
—Nicol Bolas





Halvar united the spirits of all the clans into a single, devastating force.
"Leviathan, too! Can you catch him with a fish-hook or run a line round his tongue?"
—Job 40:25

"From the sea came all life, and to the sea it will return. The sooner the better."
—Emperor Aboshan
It doesn't think. It doesn't feel. It doesn't laugh or cry. All it does from dusk till dawn Is make the soldiers die.
—Onean children's rhyme




At the end of the show, she stands alone on a stage brilliant with blood.
Those who regard the Gruul as savage simpletons underestimate the subtle power of their shamans.

"Why would I kill you all? Who then would be left to worship me?"

"Vine-wreathed, he nurtures life among the dead."
—Psemilla, Meletian poet


"Perhaps planning should become a higher priority for me."
—Dack Fayden
The Eldrazi hunger without limit and consume without pause.



Not all coals lie quietly in their beds of cold ash.
"Heed the lessons of our time: the forms of water may move the land itself and hold captive the fires within."
—Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran royal mage


When the Lion roars, his cubs grow stronger.
—Kipamu saying
"I'm about to make you famous. From the golden city to High and Dry, they'll talk about how fast you died!"

First, whispers of ancient days. Then, visions of things to come.



"The enemy is getting too close! Quick! Inflate the toad!"
"Yes, Boros tactics are unparalleled. But when your comrades are dying around you, inner strength must carry the day."
—Gideon Jura, to Aurelia


Snokk ran as fast as he could, but the sound of hooves grew ever louder in his ears.
The willow knows what the storm does not: that the power to endure harm outlives the power to inflict it.
She awoke with blood on her brow, an axe in her hand, and heads at her feet.
"The Mountain gave the Flame to Kradak to light the furnaces of his people's hearts. The wanderers became Keldons, and he the first warlord."
—"The Flame of Keld"
"Hold the line, for family and the fallen!"

"What are the odds, indeed?"
—Yusri, to Desera
"Victory in the pits is almost as rewarding as the methods I use to achieve it."








"When gods become apathetic, the people will worship anyone who answers their pleas."
—Kiora
"Arrogant maggot. You won't be so proud when I rip out your tongue and drink from your skull!"
"You can come back once you've learned some manners—and figured out how to reconstitute your physical forms."


Dedicated to the principles of Tourach, members of the Order of the Ebon Hand demonstrated their devotion with grisly rituals.



Regardless of the century, plane, or species, developing artificers never fail to invent the ornithopter.
"Just as a broken relic can be mended, a shattered history can be made whole."
The spoiled, gluttonous halls of the Orzhov teem with gaudy, needless wealth. Even their security measures are made for beauty first, efficiency second.

With one commanding word, the spell was put down and a fine collected for its casting.





"It was in Urza's journals that I finally found the secret at the core of the summonings."
—Journal, author unknown
"The cornfields promise a good yield this season."
—Radwick, farmer of Gatstaf




Millennia of constant warfare have left many planets with very little worth fighting over.
It has no respect for the deeds of martyrs, reducing their legacy to a mouthful of flesh.

The songs of angels are perceived not as words in the ears but as stirrings in the soul.
Professional pilferers prefer proper preparation.



Goblins fear the slith, believing they are children banished from the womb of the Steel Mother, deep within Kuldotha.
"Let Volrath choke on his crop of hatred."
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves



Once thrown, twice burned.



"Greed, rage, and bloodlust all lead to death at the hands of those who keep their heads."
—Sergeant Eyra
"The meek shall fight as one, and they shall overcome even the greatest of foes."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest
Step 1: Find your cousin. Step 2: Get your cousin in the cannon. Step 3: Find another cousin.
When the rebels couldn't breach the castle to kill Lalor the Obstinate, they tried a more internal approach to depose the pretender king.
"The love of nature . . . is a furious, burning, physical greed. . . ."
—Mary Webb, *The House in Dormer Forest*

The Battle of Tomakul taught Urza not to rely on fickle reinforcements.
These spirits of the air are winsome and wild, and cannot be truly contained. Only marginally intelligent, they often substitute whimsy for strategy, delighting in mischief and mayhem.
He will carve out a legend for himself with his own two hands.
"You'll never get to the top if you don't know who's already there."
—Kaya
Lammasu are the enigmatic travelers of Tarkir, soaring high above all lands in all seasons. None know their true purpose, but they often arrive on the eve of great conflicts or turning points in history.
"Save me from Maraxus," Starke pleaded, "or condemn me to his wrath. Either way, do not ignore me!"


When enough artifacts lie too long in the same place, their magical radiation weakens reality, opening rifts of unpredictable destructive power.

Earth Elementals have the eternal strength of stone and the endurance of mountains. Primordially connected to the land they inhabit, they take a long-term view of things, scorning the impetuous haste of short-lived mortal creatures.
Fortunately, hill giants have large blind spots in which a human can easily hide. Unfortunately, these blind spots are beneath the bottoms of their feet.



"The tides have begun to ignore the moon."
—Tamiyo's journal
These spirits of the air are winsome and wild, and cannot be truly contained. Only marginally intelligent, they often substitute whimsy for strategy, delighting in mischief and mayhem.


All she touches turns to well-oiled, delicately calibrated, perfectly balanced gold.

"While most overworlders fortunately don't realize this, Gargoyles can be most delicious, providing you have the appropriate tools to carve them." —The Underworld Cookbook, by Asmoranomardicadaistinaculdacar
It fuels its lanterns by leaching the warmth from its surroundings.
"Archons dispense justice according to an ancient, and flawed, premise."
—Nissa Revane
The wills of mortals shift as the tide ebbs and flows.
"If they board us we're finished," warned Orim. Crovax nodded. "And if they don't . . . what then?"
Death is no excuse to stop working.

"Now *that's* a fashion statement."
—Devin, faerie noble

"You see this rock-grinder? One step closer and it'll be a face-grinder!"


Entire valleys have been formed by mummies laboring to find veins of lazotep.

"It's just playing with us, Marsden."
—Dafynne the Radiant, last words

Another imminent battle subsided in busy snuffling and carefree rooting.

"Mages in the Blood Age would call down actual thunderstorms on their enemies. I bet we can replicate their technique."
—Dradiel, Lorehold mage-student

Every branch a crossroads, every vine a swift steed.
A shining symbol of Paliano's true ruler—ambition.
"Returne from whence ye came. . . ."
—Edmund Spenser, *The Faerie Queene*

When the School of the Unseen fell, so many magical treasures lay abandoned that no amount of death could deter the stream of thieves and desperate scholars.



The best cure for a big ego is a little failure.
"I toiled in Kazuul's mines when I was eight. I think I'm tough enough for a little hiking."

Most smiths shape metal, but some prefer more delicate materials.



If you stare at the sun for too long, you'll lose your ability to see clearly.

Some took to their boats to escape the unfolding nightmare. The remains of their vessels now litter the shores of Nephalia.
Viashino thrashes keep iguanars as hunting companions, giving them wounded captives as playthings.

"A regression to ancient forms? A glimpse of future evolutions? Or a fleeting alteration of the present?"
—Vorel of the Hull Clade

"My mind and spirit are one—a barrier not readily passed."
—Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran Royal Mage

"When you're on watch, no noise is harmless and no shadow can be ignored."
—Olgard of the Skiltfolk

"As my kha, he is the source of my inspiration. As my brother, he is the embodiment of my aspirations."
—Ajani Goldmane
Words no eyes should see, telling of things no sane mind could fathom.
A barricade only buys time. So the wealthy buy more barricades.



Anything sent into a plagued world is bound to come back infected.

Leeches never tire of feeding.
Hobs bury their kin far from home. They believe the dry, open ground keeps hags from stealing the bones and gwyllions from stealing the spirits.


You don't want to see his trophy room.

Each note strikes with deadly precision.


Their bond grew over time, as did the height of their jumps.
Nicol Bolas would not rest until he was restored to his former glory.

Dromoka's followers forsake blood ties so that they may join a greater family.
Somehow he never seems to run out of meat.

"Tsk. You'd think those nasty merrows would know how to hold their breath."
—Olka, mistmeadow witch


To become is to understand.


"It is Yawgmoth's will incarnate: an efficient machine that replaces inefficient flesh."
—Tsabo Tavoc



"My destiny is to save others so their destinies may be achieved."


Visitors to Shiv fear the dragons, the goblins, or the viashino. Natives fear the ants.
Until Emeria is freed, he raises his sword in her name.



The cathars fell like leaves as Tovolar himself joined the fray.
"I will build no sanctuaries. The safety you seek can be won only by the sword."
—Yannash, outpost builder
She remembers every word spoken, from the hero's oath to the baby's cry.

Most of the Knacksaw clique's skills were hewn from the minds of others.

Sparkmages are performance artists of sorts, but pain is the price of admission.

"The potential for change lies in all things. Know a thing's nature, know its possibilities, and know it anew."
—Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran Royal Mage
The War Drums enabled Goblin and Orcish armies to crush the sparsely defended Dwarven cities.

Artifact construction required immense resources.






Sparkmages are performance artists of sorts, but pain is the price of admission.
The soft creak of trees in the wind is not always cause for comfort.


As magnigoth trees expanded across the sea into Almaaz and New Argive, it became clear Yavimaya's borders were never confined by its coastline.
A living invention born of a grand design.
As they fought the Eldrazi, many vampires learned to live among humans. Others were unable to make the adjustment.
"The gods gave us no wings to fly, but they gave us an even greater gift: imagination."
—Daxos of Meletis
"We tried your way. Now we do it my way!"
—Jym, barbarian of Baldur's Gate
"We thank the souleaters for inscribing our souls with subservience, to reinforce the sacred order."
—Drones' hymn of gratitude
From mortal hope immortal power springs.
"Urborg used to be lovely—scenic volcanoes, respectable lich lords. Since the Cabal came with their nightmares and thrulls, it's all gone to the worms."
—Mister Lostspoons, Skulltown gossip
It's sent into unguilded districts by the Orzhov to collect the souls of those no one will miss.
She sees the world as a gift meant for her.
"We have a proud history of self-sacrifice. But it is easy, in these bleak times, to find one among us who is eager to die for any cause."
—Tavalus, acolyte of Korlis
"The specimen seems to be broken."
"Come on, Skitch, we'll lose them in the geyserfield."
"Water the soil with blood, if you must. Eventually it must be tilled with forgiveness."
—Greensleeves
Nothing is sacred to rats. Everything is simply another meal.

"The Roterothopter is as insidious as it is ingenious. It is one of the few creations of our school that I take no pride in."
—Baki, Wizard Attendant

Nature's arms encircle all who are willing to draw close.

"Only the bravest are worthy of our blessing."
"The people wiped the sand from their eyes and cursed—and left the barren land to the hyenas and vipers."
—Afari, *Tales*
"Earth's increase, foison plenty, Barns and garners never empty: Vines with clust'ring bunches growing; Plants with goodly burden bowing."
—William Shakespeare, *The Tempest*



"Don't you think if I saw a half-woman, half-fish with three glowing eyes, I'd have remembered?"
—Drugo, town guard

The Wall of Bone is said to be an aspect of the Great Wall in Hel, where the bones of all sinners wait for Ragnarok, when Hela will call them forth for the final battle.
The cube's surface is pockmarked with jagged runes that seem to shift when unobserved.

"May the memory of our fallen heroes ensnare the violent hearts of lesser men."
—Great Threshold of Monserkat inscription


The ideas came flooding in so fast that they couldn't all be contained.
The path to strength is forged in stability.

"In the death of the foe lies the resurrection of the faithful."
Skirk Ridge had survived earthquakes, mudslides, and meteor showers. Then the goblins moved in.
Conspirators poisoned the oracle not because her visions were wrong, but because they were right.


It roams in both the worlds of the living and the dead but belongs to neither.
"You bore me."

Jund feasts on the unprepared.
Take away a few things, and a rebellion may ensue. Take away everything, and the oppression will be accepted as fate.
"Die. But die knowing that your pathetic life will yield a great bounty for me."
—Zul Ashur, lich lord


"This one has not screamed enough to show effective implantation. Kill it."
—Volrath
The ancient green dragon Claugiyliamatar is often seen with a mangled corpse dangling from her mouth.
A regular guest at the Royal Masquerade, Arien is the envy of the Court. She appears in a new costume every hour.
One goes to Tidehollow either to forget or to be forgotten. Either way, the scullers will oblige.
"Let the deception of the gods yield to the pure light of day."
—Brimaz, king of Oreskos


"We entered the church in search of solace, but it became clear we wouldn't find it there."
—Grete, Order of Saint Traft

"The nature of this plane makes it almost too easy for me to command the dead."
—Liliana Vess

"How did I ever let myself get talked into this project?"
—Toothlicker Harj, Orcish Captain
The fastest way across the dunes is above.
Gaea forged her soldiers into self-wielding weapons that struck down all impurities.




Hand-stitched, and marked by the blood of the Auriok.

"Their eyes will shrivel and blacken before faith's true light."



"Aza'gorod, the Nightbringer. The embodiment of death. A killer of stars and of worlds."
—Illuminor Szeras


White dragons are unparalleled hunters, keenly focused on slaughtering their enemies.
Beneath crashing waves lies an ocean of secrets waiting to be explored.
"Let's find out what kind of audience you are. Festive? Fearless?"


"Study the topography of your enemies, and you will have a map to victory."
—Shu Yun, the Silent Tempest

"Hey, my great-great-grandfather had a dog just like that!"
—Dradiel, Lorehold mage-student

"By the tongues of a thousand serpents, this time I do not lie."
—Ahmahz il Kin, Suq'Ata diplomat
"Well, at least it left us a mouse in exchange. Er . . . ugh . . . make that half a mouse."
—Binhald, Beskir veteran
For the first time, elves welcomed Benalish soldiers into the forest with something other than arrows.
The God-Pharaoh's benevolence concealed the factory he created to produce an army of Eternals.


"I don't like to think of myself as a pirate. I'm more like a stimulator of the local economy."
The dread gases didn't kill Farbid. But as he lay in the muck, miserable and helpless, watching ghouls and rats advance on him, he wished they had.
Death comes in the blink of an eye.
She paints pictures with words, though not all pictures show the truth.

「何世紀も続く競争がアルケヴィオスを破壊した。しかしひとつの種が、長い再生の道を歩み始めた。」
—-神秘の時代：呪文物語

"I am the purifier, the light that clears all shadows."
—Seal inscription
"Visions of glory, spare my aching sight,/ Ye unborn ages, crowd not on my soul!"
—Thomas Gray, *The Bard*

Mishra was gone—all that remained was a machine wearing his face.



"My family sheltered in her light, the dark was content to wait."
—Crovax
"Your life is finished, your name lost, and your work forgotten. It is as though Mazeura never existed."
—*Chainer's Torment*


"Some hid from the storm. I embraced it and learned its name."
When eagles leave the sky, sailors leave the sea.
Magic.Wizards.com

Even gods have pets.

Plate mail, the skin of the chest, the rib cage, the heart—all useless against the mage who can reach directly for the soul.
"Don't be silly. Panthers don't hunt in packs!"
—Jego, disgraced archdruid
Illegal street races turned out to be perfect practice for avoiding Consulate patrols.
"War is no picnic," my father liked to say. But the ants seemed to disagree.
Sometimes Shivan dragons toy with their food. Other times they just cook it.
As you gaze down upon Wyrm's Crossing, you hear distant cries of alarm, and you notice that all traffic on the bridge has come to a halt.
"I will fight only the way nature intended—and nature intended us to win."


"Ha, banishment? Be merciful, say 'death,' For exile hath more terror in his look, Much more than death."
—William Shakespeare, *Romeo and Juliet*

By the end of the festival, it was the only thing still grinning.


"Before armor, there was bark. Before blades, there were thorns."
—Molimo, maro-sorcerer





First, dispose of the evidence. Then dispose of your knowledge of its disposal.
Once again, Kamahl felt the full force of the Mirari's pull, but he had learned much since the last time.
More than one mage was driven insane by the sound of the Millstone relentlessly grinding away.



A skullkeeper is the first to arrive after the palace archers strike down intruders, probing their brains for choice bits of knowledge.


"The Elves train our healers, and we keep the Orcs at bay. Most Elvish bargains aren't as fair."
—General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox

Leonos had no second thoughts about the abolishment edict. He'd left skyrunes warning of the eviction, even though it was cloudy.

"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim."
—Sisay, captain of the *Weatherlight*
"It's strange, but I can feel it when the land is corrupted. I understand why the Autumn Willow is so protective."
—Daria

Krosa's topmost bottom feeder.


SECRET AGENT
PD042198
LICENSE TO BE KILLED
His beasts move the great siege towers of the Abzan across the endless sands.
Since the war began, the castle's walls mark the only place on Kamigawa where no kami has ever set foot.




The same spears that catch their food today will defend their homes tomorrow.

Searching the city for Fblthp felt like sifting the rain for a single drop of blood.
She stands as a living symbol of the natural world and an enemy of the forces that threaten it.


"Get it? Bunnies, letters, -X/-X? Me neither."
—Bucky, flavor text writer
Immolation is the sincerest form of flattery.
Every page holds a month, every date a numeral.
The wizard's vocabulary of mogg profanities increased with every net she cast.


Immolation is the sincerest form of flattery.
The Auriok see the artificer as a conduit, beckoning new creations into the world.
There is no glory to be gained in the kingdom of the dead.
—Vec tomb inscription
"Your presumption is your downfall."

Many airship captains keep pets that share their love of the sky.
No pilgrimage to Valor's Reach is complete without a stroll through its celebrated shopping district.


"Good ideas don't take time. They take a lot of bad ideas first."
@-Ral Zarek
"I am not at liberty to reveal my sources, but I can assure you, the price on your head is high."


Moss-covered statues littered the area, a macabre monument to the basilisk's terrible power.


See evil, hear evil, speak evil.

As strong as a centaur's will.
"Even your shadow is too foul to tolerate."
The golden rule of revenge: Do unto others what they tried to do unto you.


Kitesailing is a way of life—and without practice, the end of it.

"Your life was meaningless, but your death will glorify Yawgmoth."
—Tsabo Tavoc


Tired of waiting for a dragon to eat them, some hardy goblins struck out to become meals for the unknown.
"I feel your pain. It's exquisite."




Some machines refuse to accept their own obsolescence.
They pick at the remains of the city's corpse.
Arvon was ecstatic to offer his blood to such a captivating creature.
"Poets speak of your unrivaled speed," the Champion said to the assembled centaurs, "but it is plain to see that your true strength lies in your unwavering loyalty to one another."
—*The Theriad*
"Burn, suffer, and trouble me no more."
Despite the magic that sustains Gonti's life, the crime lord is often described as heartless.

Metal is scarce, smiths are pricey, and plate mail is heavy.
The murderer faced justice in the Azorius courts, but his soul was set free on a technicality.

"Nobody ever listens to my complaints! Not even when I use the listening stick."
For wisdom's sake, it was built high to gaze on all things. For glory's sake, it was built high as a testament of power. For strength's sake, it was built high to repel all attacks.
"The Lord of Darkness elevates only those who serve."


"You must pay for your sin in blood."
The undisputed master of the mountains of Shiv.
The spear thrown by Kytheon's own hand was the weapon that felled his friends.
The phantom warrior comes from nowhere and returns there just as quickly.

"The dunes smell spilled blood."

Clear out the cell. Bring in the next prisoner.


"Phyrexians can't corrupt what they can't get close enough to touch."


Some fishers like to eat eels, and some eels like to eat fishers.

"The clouds obey my whims, and you'll obey theirs."
"Did clouds dance in his eyes, did thorns play at his fingertips?"
—Shesul Fass, faerie bard
Fblthp had always hated crowds.
The instinct for survival makes enemies of all.

The hatchlings will fill the jungles of Murasa in a glittering tide.


"In each of us is the strength of all of us."
—Trostani







Sometimes the strongest weapon you can hold in your hand is another hand.



"The timeless, tireless jaws of nature shall one day devour us all."
—Sildark, artificer of Omu



"I've seen death before. My mother succumbing to illness, my comrades bleeding on the battlefield . . . But I'd never seen anything as dreadful as that."
—Taani, berserker of Etlan



"Cities are a blight on the beauty of nature."
"Listen to the roar! Feel the thunder! The Immersturm shouts its approval with every bolt of lightning!"


At times, survival must outweigh all other considerations.

The giant spider's silk naturally resists gravity, almost weaving itself as it blankets the forest canopy.


"Horse? Who needs a horse?"

His soul snared by an angel's curse, Crovax twisted heroism into its purest shadow.
"Home is where you can find a decent graveyard and strangers can disappear without awkward questions."



"The flame paints a bright wheel on the sky, then shifts into a stabbing spark. The enemy falls; the smoke of victory rises."
—"Legends of the Firedancer"
I didn't think Mammoths could ever hold a candle to a well-trained battle horse. Then one day I turned my back on a drunken soldier. His blow never landed; Mi'cha flung the brute over ten meters.
"Move it, Varis, or I'll pick one for you!"
—Ellywick Tumblestrum



The dense jungle surrenders to a lush and lavish expanse. At its center uncoil the spires of Qarsi Palace.




The rising tide of Orazca's plunder lifted all ships.







"Tonight, madam, it's your money *and* your life."

"My soldiers fought without hesitation, died without doubt."
—Sidar Jabari

"No one else had the spine for it, so I ran right between that giant's legs and hauled poor Valdir back to Axgard!"
"We are this city, down to its bones."
"The contract specified an appendage for a missed payment. Read the fine print: the head is an appendage."

"Our soldiers are blessed with lizard scales as hard and cold as steel."
—Sidar Jabari
"See how *you* like it."
—Ertai, wizard adept


"Urza's machines have a splendid habit of excavating themselves."
—Rona, disciple of Gix






The crowd roared, the fighters bled, and the dead piled high in the pits. Only the Cabal could win.


Its victims are known by their eyes: shattered vessels leaking broken dreams.
"Well, I jammed the whatsit into the whackdoodle, but I think I broke the thingamajigger."
"Is it true that the apes wear furs of gold when they marry?"
—Rana, Suq'Ata market fool

"I am older than any Elder Druid before me, and still no child has been born with the Mark to take my place. When will the wheel turn?"
—Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order
After the fourth time Chandra left a place engulfed in flames, she decided to just go ahead and make it her thing.
The Vanto Beatdown began as an improvised dance-battle at the Rose Room lounge. When word spread of how many were slain at the first event, it became a citywide obsession.
"Bats are welcome to eat thousands of my pets. I have multitudes more that will ultimately eat the bats."
—Izoni


A master of tactics, the Lord of Atlantis makes his people bold in battle merely by arriving to lead them.

Mines became common as cities during the days of the artificers.
"The good of society matters much more than the inconvenience of a few."
—Agmand Sarv, Azorius hussar
"A crafter must imbue her weapon with part of her soul—something the Phyrexians are incapable of doing."
—Melira, sylvok outcast

Rath forces plants from its surface as one presses whey from cheese.

This cat has two lives and it's hunting for more.

"They never found the body of young Josu, or that of his murderous sister."
—"The Fall of the House of Vess"
The ground rose and formed into thousands of tiny warriors. This fight was far from over.


As she took the wheel of the *Weatherlight* for the first time in a millennium, Jhoira knew she'd been right to restore the ship. Anything was possible now.
"Just take a little off the top."

Irony is getting walked on by the earth instead of the other way around.



"My father was Gruul, but I chose the precision of the legion over the fury of the pack."

The murderous horrors of Raven's Run are legendary, but even that haunted place goes quiet when the night wolves howl.
The taste of blood breaks down what little self-control the Rakdos possess.

"I will go to any length to achieve my goal. Eternal life is worth any sacrifice."
—Zur the Enchanter

A key that slips through every lock.

"We are all decaying, always in a state of near-death. One moment without breath and we begin to break down."
—Cevraya, Golgari shaman



Though her words may be unoriginal, her creations are anything but.

"Of all the things that can be stolen, opportunity is the most valuable."

The strength of one. The courage of ten.
One rarely notices a heartbeat, save when it is stolen.
Occasionally a member of the Institute of Arcane Study acquires a taste for worldly pleasures. Seldom do they have trouble finding employment.




He stood transfixed, able to do nothing but ponder a life of peace and redemption. It was the worst five minutes of his life.

"Dear Magic R&D, . . ."
"Let them decry me for burning the dead. I'm not giving those ghoulcallers any more fuel for their madness."



The thoughtweft is his informant, and he its devoted guardian.
"It lives . . . IT LIVES!"
—Ludevic, necro-alchemist


"If a rhino's head is lower than its shoulders, trust me—it is *not* praying."
—Mwani, Mtenda herder


Darkness doesn't always send its minions to do its dirty work.


"The spirits of the mythic ones ever circle their beloved keep, forbidding entry to all who come with the heavy tread of hate."

The maze-like design embodies the core of Azorius law—strict structure designed to test wills and stall change.
"No fair Since when does a bug get ta munch on *me*?"
—Squee, goblin cabin hand

Witherbloom students learn to see death not as tragedy, but as opportunity.
"What does a mountain fear of a fly? Giants are barely aware of us, let alone afraid."
—Gaddock Teeg
The stronghold of Theros's light.




"I reeled from the blow, and then suddenly, I knew exactly what to do. Within moments, victory was mine."
—Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran royal mage

Olivia was quick to make an example of any village that refused to pay her blood tithe.


Silent, but deadly.



The maze-like design embodies the core of Azorius law—strict structure designed to test wills and stall change.

Action: Show an imp that's a kitchen helper for Asmor, the Underworld Cook.

"In the Mwonvuli you must divide your attention between what hangs overhead and what lies underfoot."
—Sidar Jabari
All suns must set.



The oil sloshes against his skull as he nears his destination: the Frogtosser Games and the lighting of the Flaming Boggart.
"With this ring, you have friends in worlds you've never heard of."
—Sisay, Captain of the *Weatherlight*
The Curse of Wandering leaves only hatred.


"The secret entrance should be near."
A mask forged to avenge a death forgotten.
Not the foulest or bloodiest act at Rix Maadi by a stretch.

"Great peril demands formidable weaponry."
—Urza
"Then she spread a fine dust over the land, like a butterfly shaking its wing."
—"The Enchantress," Femeref tale
"Four parts molten bronze, yes . . . one part frozen mercury, yes, yes . . . but then what?"


Leonos had no second thoughts about the abolishment edict. He'd left skyrunes warning of the eviction, even though it was cloudy.
The Legion's conquistadors could endure Ixalan's sun. Their forts could withstand a charging ceratops. But nothing can stop a ceratops strengthened by the sun.

"Welcome to the winning team."





Invented in Mishra's earlier days, the Rack was once his most feared creation.
Though dangerous, Shiv teems with both life and mana, making it a tempting destination for ambitious mages.




Teysa convened the meeting of the Obzedat. Kaya ended it.
Left without their leader Raksha, the leonin split into two prides: one side supported the regent kha, while the other rebelled in fury.
"On my death, I give you this treasure: the knowledge that life is hard, yet too soon past."
—Dal funeral rite
"No, I insist—let *me* carry all that heavy jewelry."


"Never underestimate our enemy's strength, brutality, . . . or stupidity."
—Commander Eesha
The traditional kings of the jungle command a healthy respect in other climates as well. Relying mainly on their stealth and speed, Savannah Lions can take a victim by surprise, even in the endless flat plains of their homeland.
After years of training, the Druid becomes one with nature, drawing power from the land and returning it when needed.

"Not again!"


"Choose, vampire: our hat on your head, or no hat, no head."



"Even gods shall kneel."
—Nicol Bolas


Like calls to like, and none are forgotten.
Knight-Inquisitors of Saint Raban delve deep into mysteries best left unexplored.
"One head watches for Consulate enforcers. The other watches for renegade thieves."
—Crime Lord Gonti



The leonin thought of the myr as omens, never imagining the sinister fate they foretold.


It's easy to stand head and shoulders over those with no backbone.


A mother only a child could love.
The Astrotorium's express lane is practically its own ride.




Nothing lives within it, yet there is life.




After Talrand conquered the depths of Shandalar, his ambitions drove him skyward, joined by servants whose drive and curiosity equaled his own.



Divining the future is easy when you hold the power to sway it.

"No matter how adept our artistic skill, our effigies can never hope to capture the vibrant beauty of a living elf. Perhaps that is truly why we mourn."


Pure souls shine bright as daybreak.


To exact his vengeance, Extus needed followers. His infiltrators recruited promising mage-students from the very halls he sought to destroy.




Many Ravnicans think of nature as orderly groves and elf-tended rot farms. They haven't seen the Gruul wilds.
He has journeyed where none have been before. Now he returns to ensure that none follow.
"'O miserable of happy! Is this the end Of this new glorious world . . . ?'"
—John Milton, *Paradise Lost*
Radha was born in Skyshroud, but her temper is undeniably Keldon.


Enter and indulge your darkest fantasies, for you may never pass this way again.




Capable of moving swiftly through even tightly-packed earth and leaping surprising distances above ground, bulettes are difficult to escape once they've caught scent of prey.
"Saving a stranger's life is an excellent recruitment method. Luckily, peril is so easy to come by."
—Falco Spara




It teaches *you* to play dead.
The appearance of the first kavu surprised Multani. As they continued to emerge, he no longer had any doubts about Yavimaya's ability to defend herself.
Knowledge demands sacrifice.
You're about to disembark to find the harbormaster when you spot a merfolk darting underneath your ship.

The faultless and immaculate castes form the lower tiers of elvish society, with the exquisite caste above them. At the pinnacle is the perfect, a consummate blend of aristocrat and predator.
"click . . . whirrrr . . . beep . . . click!"
"What kind of monstrous grave robber leaves the treasures, but takes the bodies?"
—Fjall, Beskir elder
"Knowledge of Bant's landscape and ruins is a weapon that the invaders can't comprehend."
—Elspeth Tirel
The Izzet specialize in unnatural disaster.







"With rage as your forge, your hammer can smite anything."


Every laboratory buzzes with new experiments, each a piece of Ral's ambitious project.
"Once more into Devil's Breach, soldiers. I want another devil tail for my collection."

After lightning struck the cliffs, the ore became iron, the iron became steel, and the steel became greaves. The lightning never left.
"I'll lead."
"Every choice alters the path of fate."
—Sarkhan Vol
"At this rate I fully expect to be replaced by a clockwork golem by year's end."
—Barrin
Like all jungle plants, the vines must fight and claw for sunlight. Once their place is secured, they grow strong, sharp, and impenetrable.



The Elves never had a standing army; when battle came, they pressed Hunters, Scouts, and Farmers into a surprisingly effective militia.
Students who had seen Rayne argue with Urza were certain she had summoned it to make him seem warmer by comparison.
Only when you've given up the search will the caves yield their secrets.
"Turns out the case of the flattened outpost and the case of the missing kitten *were* related."
—Endris, Drannith magistrate
In the Jamuraan jungles, there is often no separating beauty from danger.
The endless expanse of desert surrounding Naktamun sometimes yields threats that the gods themselves must answer.

"There's nothing like the high seas to clear your head or escape pursuers."
"Don't just win the game. Win the crowd."
—Moriana, Mage Tower coach
The frillbacks of Orazca soak up the sun on their tall spinal fins. They look slow and sleepy—until they catch the scent of prey.

"Enjoy your deception, Vuel," Gerrard said as Volrath's features melted from the dead shapeshifter. "I'll count this one as practice."
Some of the thallids that escaped into the fens of Urborg began emulating the Cabal's bloodsoaked rituals in their own peculiar way.
"The secret entrance should be near."
It'll either crash or win the race. Possibly both.


Deep in a murmuring bosk, where the trees' memories span centuries, the simple banner of green and copper signifies an elder whose rings number more than a faerie's days.
On the Planet of Sorcerers in the Eye of Terror lies the Tower of the Cyclops, the redoubt of Magnus the Red.

"The Wojek defend the laws. We defend the people."
"Is it the stomping kind or the munching kind?"
—Slobad, goblin tinkerer
"The land here seems to go out of its way to kill you."
—Chandra Nalaar
"So many choices. Shall I choose loathing, hate, or malice today?"
—Eliza of the Keep
Left to itself, nature overflows any container, overthrows any restriction, and overreaches any boundary.



"Are you sure this is going to work?" asked Will. "No," said Rowan. "But if it does, it's going to be spectacular."
Bred for battle in the Grand Coliseum, these wurms annihilated whole ecosystems when released into the wild.

"Who needs a spear? Ya break off the horn, and ya stab the fish with it. Easy!"
—Kakra, Sea Troll
Tocasia's face haunted his vision. The explosion still rung in his ears. Mishra kept running and never once looked back.
"Not so scary when you can't squeeze through the air ducts, are you?"



Serum was once derived from Mirrodin's blinkmoths, offering visions of inspiration. Now it is pulled from Phyrexian inkmoths, yielding visions of perfection.
"I'll keep watch. Happy now?"
The voices of the dead ring in the heart long after they have faded from the ears.



Skyclaves held the key to reshaping the world.
Impossibly tall, improbably elegant.

She learned a tragic lesson that day: even the purest can be corrupted when the heart's emotions are twisted.

"I hear there are Bears—or spirits—that guard caravans passing through the forest."
—Gulsen, Abbey Matron


Every head it rests upon winds up severed.

Adapted to tread on razorgrass, the rhino proved adept at treading on Phyrexians as well.
Polished by a thousand waves.


As tireless as her mount, a skyhunter's vigil is measured in days.

With the harvest of Domri's spark, the Elderspell began to fuel Bolas's ascension to godhood.


True enlightenment comes not with a new thought, but with understanding of all the old ones.


"Every device in the rig is evidence of Thran enlightenment. All mana was the same to them, whether from rock or water, growth or decay. Can you imagine such unity of vision?"
—Urza, journal


"What do you have that I cannot obtain?"
—Mairsil, the Pretender
Martyred for worshipping her ancestors, she now walks among them.
"What, these old things? They were just lying around, gathering dust. I figured I might as well put them to use."
"This war will be over quickly, so we can afford to make the medals out of gold."
—Dispatch from the Merchant Council of Korlis
Faith is a cathar's greatest weapon, but a sword of blessed silver is a close second.
The flame of anger is hard to douse once lit.
"We are the heart of the wild, the fire in its eyes, and the howl in its throat. Come, join the battle to which you were born."
—Kroshkar, Gruul shaman


Not all shadows are cast by light—some are cast by darkness.

Gwenna stayed her hand only once, to save young Harbin's life—a mistake she would never repeat.

He tired of his fellow researchers and their useless prattling, so he decided to make a network of scholars with whom he could carry a conversation.
"I wish I could say it gets easier, kiddo, but I'd be lying."
—Vander

"I would never have believed that on a world with four suns there could exist a place so dark."
—Glissa Sunseeker

He speaks directly into his supplicants' minds using fiery words that inflame their thoughts and incite their passions.



It is all too easy to disturb the Blessed Sleep.
If there's anything a werewolf hates, it's a collar-especially Avacyn's Collar, the symbol of her church.

"Some fates you can see coming for you, plain as day, and there's nothing you can do about them."
—Callaphe the mariner

Mirri listened intently, even as Hanna held the healing water to her lips. Would the sound of the spring drown out the elves' approach?

"Prayer rarely explains."
—Orim, Samite healer
The soul sheds light, and death is its shadow. When the light dims, life and death embrace.
—Nantuko teaching

"Um . . . oh . . . what was I saying?"
—Reveka, Wizard Savant
"Why eat now what could one day grow into a feast?"
—Ojutai, translated from Draconic
Lumengrid, site of the Knowledge Pool, source of vedalken arcana.
Escapes should always be daring.


Storms spread throughout Oran-Rief, ripping the skies with wind and rain. Airborne creatures sought shelter where they could.



The God-Pharaoh's most devoted took it upon themselves to follow his example.

Today it flies with the flock. Tomorrow it may wake to find them gone, its body in an unfamiliar form.
Volcanic ash-winds batter it, climbing vines overwhelm it, dragonfire roasts it, and yet it still stands as a testament to a forgotten world.



Though solitary by nature, the sphinxes did not hesitate to join in the fight against the Eldrazi.

Kolaghan goblins rush into battle to satisfy their desire for violence as well as their desire not to be eaten.
Do not fear the lightning. Fear the one it obeys.




"They've got eyes inside my head!"

Metal is scarce, smiths are pricey, and plate mail is heavy.
Disillusioned with the Imperium, the population of Chancer's Vale turned to other, hungrier powers for meaning.




"Can you feel your instincts overwhelm your reason?"
—Watnik, master glassblower

"Thirsty?"
—Drunvalus, hydromancer

What goes up, must come down.
Some cats are born fighters; others need a little persuading.

From concept to paper to reality.


Despite its darkness, Shadowmoor doesn't want for growth. Legions of creeping things thrive in the shade.



Boggarts get so excited when they find something new to smash that they really don't notice who gets underfoot.


Even when the flesh grows cold, knowledge waits in the bones for a master to release it.
Each scar on its hide is a badge of honor.
Countless ghouls surged through Thraben's streets, and with them came the city's salvation.

There are more sights on Zendikar than the eyes can see.


Though giants are mortal, they live so long and on such a grand scale that many small folk don't believe they ever truly die.


Heroes act without thought of glory or reward. Accolades are a consequence, not a goal.





He vowed he would never rest until he reached his destination. He doesn't know how right he was.
「ヴィル！フェイの物語があるわ！寝る前に読み聞かせてあげましょうか？」
—-ローアン・ケンリス
The best ideas often come from the worst minds.
Loyal and passionate in battle, the Windseeker tribe roams the Green Lands near the Honeyed Sea.
It doesn't need to feed, but still it hungers.
"I only return what rightly belongs to another."
Death turned admirable conviction into pointless intransigence.

"We turned old weapons into new warriors."
—Jhoira, master artificer

Whenever you copy a triggered ability, you may do a little dance.


Zur remained aloof from Terisiare's suffering, intent only on his own perfection.
"Choose one to heal, one to harm, and one to grant you the prudence to use them."
—Miotri, auratouched mage
"You think they know we're here?"
@-Orlo, goblin raider
One quiet word sets off the stampede.
"Even for Elves, they were stealthy little twerps. They'd taken our measure before we'd even seen them."
—Marshall Volnikov


The Izzet specialize in unnatural disaster.
"Never start a fight you can't finish."
—Padril, council guardian


"An indrik's howl has destructive power much subtler than that of its crushing foot. The sound is mundane, but inaudible vibrations scatter and sunder magical contrivances."
—Simic research notes

A shadowy version of its corporeal cousin, this lynx hunts souls, not meals.

The arrows fell like fiery rain, and for a moment, the sky itself seemed to burn.
"While most overworlders fortunately don't realize this, gargoyles can be most delicious, providing you have the appropriate tools to carve them."
—Asmoranomardicadaistinaculdacar, The Underworld Cookbook



"The vampires never had gods. We followed our bloodchiefs. Now they are gone. What is left? Destruction and death, my friends. That is enough."



Rayne once made several unkind comparisons between the bird's naked opportunism and Urza's.

"There will be no secrets between us... like it or not."


Darien's call to Yavimaya would have fallen red to the snow had it not been for the agility of the aesthir.
"You can become anything if I just put my mind to it."

There is no height above Grixis that is free from the stench of death.
Lightning reflexes, thunderous might.
This spell, like many attributed to Drafna, was actually the work of his wife Hurkyl.




One bone broken for every twig snapped underfoot.
—Llanowar penalty for trespassing

"I would gladly give my life if it would inspire my clan to victory."
"As long as there is a single shred of life, there is hope."
—Nissa Revane



"Don't thank me. Thank nature for its wondrous designs!"


The scrape of shovels and the tumble of cold dirt soon muffled their pleas.


When nature is backed into a corner, just like its children, it lashes out.

Until Emeria is freed, he raises his sword in her name.

Whatever the Maestros had ordered, it wasn't anyone's business, including his.




"When gods become apathetic, the people will worship anyone who answers their pleas."
—Kiora
The fury of the slaughter god Mogis burns within him.




"A cyclops thinks slowly but strikes quickly. Try to keep it thinking."
—Brigone, soldier of Meletis
"Rest, friends. I will protect you."
Once a year, the skies over Paliano fill with the flying machines of this who hope to be taken as pupils by the artificer Muzzio.




The giant was felt a few seconds before he was seen.
"There's no such thing as 'impenetrable.'"


Once the last few slivers the Riptide Project controlled were dead, there was nothing to keep the island from being completely overrun.

Tidal forces of the blood moon wrench and buckle the land, drawing monoliths of stone and soil toward the flaming orb.
The Eldrazi don't merely extinguish life—they supplant it.
"You can't protect them all, Jace."
—Vraska


"Fear doesn't make you a coward; giving in to it does. Now take up your sword and fight!"


"Smarter than death? Let's see you outsmart my mace, necromancer!"







There were many reasons why Shiv was not high on Sheoldred's list of places to conquer: big, fiery reasons.

Unpredictable as the sea itself, Water Elementals shift without warning from tranquility to tempest. Capricious and fickle, they flow restlessly from one shape to another, expressing their moods with their physical forms.
Those who regard the Gruul as savage simpletons underestimate the subtle power of their shamans.

2016 European Vintage Champion



As the assassins converged on Kitt Kanto, she struck a high note and held it, unbroken, for nearly a minute. When the room fell silent, she was surrounded only by rose petals falling gently to the floor.

"You think I stand alone? I have the forest at my call, the waters at my back. I outnumber you."
It strides through the universe as though stepping on the stars, crossing freely between the celestial and earthly worlds.





"I'd call that a successful first test. Golem! Rearm the Doom Citadel!"
In Urborg, few things are less permanent than death.
"The Dauthi believe they dignify murder by paying for it."
—Lyna, Soltari emissary
Oculomancers see the ideal potion ingredient. The bats don't see it that way.

From the perpetual shadowsmoke that hung above the ship, a silent form emerged, lips curled with malice and anticipation.

The Somberwald has become a hunting ground for the Dronepack, the group of werewolves that have succumbed to the flesh-twisting power of Emrakul.

"The protection offered comes at a price. How numerous are your kin?"
—Purraj of Urborg
I tell you, there was so many arrows flying about you couldn't hardly see the sun. So I says to young Angus, "Well, at least now we're fighting in the shade!"


For the first time in his life, Grakk felt a little warm and fuzzy inside.
With an armory of light, even the squire may champion her people.
"All are welcome in the angels' light."







History has buried its treasures deep.



"Every death has a web of consequences. Our job is to find the spider."
"When gods become apathetic, the people will worship anyone who answers their pleas."
—Kiora

"Want to sink a ship? Blow a hole in the hull. Want to kill a regisaur? Same answer."
—Captain Brandis Thorn

Die beneath a tree, wake up a part of it.
"The warm rain of grease on my face immediately made it clear I had entered Phyrexia." —Jarsyl, *Diary*



"Even the threat of power has power."
—Jeska, warrior adept

Some minds are more open than others.
Ixidor had only to imagine their ruin and Akroma made it so.
I heard their eerie howling, the wolves calling their kindred across the frozen plains.
"Wood is wasted in the dirt."
—Orcish proverb

Trapped in a realm of dead flesh and scarce hunting, the ravenous wolves of Karfell follow the Dread Marn to warm game.



No matter where you find them, goblins love rocks.


The Akroans fashion their helms to honor the dragons, not to protect against them, as that would be of little help.

"May Svyelun's waves drown your memory."
—Traditional merfolk curse
Seen through Rakdos eyes, a cruel betrayal is a hilarious stunt.

Other Phyrexians have nightmares about the gargantua.


One offering to appease her on her arrival. Another to celebrate her departure.






"'Do you know, I always thought Unicorns were fabulous monsters, too? I never saw one alive before!' 'Well, now that we have seen each other,' said the Unicorn, 'if you'll believe in me, I'll believe in you.'" —Lewis Carroll

"We survived the Travails! Killer angels! Horrors from beyond the moon! Now some big werewolves think they can scare us? Let 'em try."
Will gasped as Rowan drew from the raw power of the Strixhaven Snarl. For a moment, she was luminous, transcendent, terrible.
"All your steel won't protect you if your will is weak."
"Where do you run when the earth becomes your enemy?"
—Naimag, Femeref philosopher




From the highest tiers of Dawn's Light Palace to the deepest shade of Wren's Run, the silver notes of the horn shimmer through the air, and all who hear it feel its pull.


Volrath has bred them to fear only him. Are they charging into battle, or merely fleeing his wrath?
"Perhaps this time the power of the artificers shall be used wisely."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
It follows the strongest leader—the one with the longest whip.

"There are times when destiny calls forth a people and demands an action. *Now* is the time. *We* are the people. *This* is our action. Charge!"
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves




"Is it true that the apes wear furs of gold when they marry?"
—Rana, Suq'Ata market fool
An emblem of a secret guild, the Dimir insignia is seen only by its own members—and the doomed.

"You think they know we're here?"
—Orlo, goblin raider
"This school was founded in secret, operates in secret, and exists for the teaching of secrets. Those who would alter reality must first escape it."
—Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen
Fouler than a necromancer's kiss.
—Jamuraan expression
"Where metal is tainted and wood is scarce, we are best armed by faith."
—Tavalus, acolyte of Korlis
"There are terrors lurking in the unseen corners of us all."
—Crovax
Don't venture into the darkness, lest it decide not to let you leave.
The Simic soon discovered that the sky offered as few constraints on size as the sea.

Even a fragment of a powerstone contains within it not just energy, but space—vast dimensions trapped in fragile crystal.


For most, war is a calamity. For some, an opportunity. And for the very few, a pleasure.

"The secret to invention is to see something in your mind, then find where it hides in the world."
Atarka conquered Qadat, the Fire Rim, long ago, winning over its efreet with a promise to spread the glory of fire to all the world.
Not alive, not dead, but definitely furious.





After the Battle of Pharagax Bridge, the Champion spent many months among the leonin of Oreskos. She found that they were quick to take offense, not because they were thin-skinned, but because they were always eager for a fight.
—*The Theriad*
"If a careless elf ends up caught in a spider's web, we must expect nature to take its course. Do not blame the spider for being a spider."
—Dellin Berting, Tolarian entomologist
In the Kathari dumping grounds known as the Boneheaps, its not hard to improvise an offense.
A vertical scream pierces the night air and echoes doom through the clouds.
"Chronicles across the ages describe Jodah. They likely refer not to one mage, but to a family or an arcane title."
—Arkol, Argivian scholar

Its pulsating cry shatters bonds of iron, granite, and servitude.


The essence of wind to lift up the weary.








"If it means that people can live in freedom, yeah, I'll keep watch."






"The scavengers who first found it called it the 'Bone Crank.' Not a bad name, I'd say."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist

"The Origin Query will wait. We must ensure we survive to return to it."
—Pelyus, vedalken ordinar





Those who expect betrayal at every turn are seldom disappointed.

Jund feasts on the unprepared.

The Phyrexian minds that constructed it did not live past its awakening.

Battle doesn't need a purpose; the battle is its own purpose. You don't ask why a plague spreads or a field burns. Don't ask why I fight.
The Great Furnace's blessing is a spectacular sight, but the best view comes at a high cost.






Many sent to serve Davvol carried such instruments, as if to remind him who their true masters were.
"In life, it was a cunning survivor, fearless and quick. May its power pass to you as you wear its skull."
—Gna, Gruul shaman

The year that the brothers landed on Argoth, the trees produced five times as many seeds as normal.

"How can werewolves be considered abominations next to such creatures?"
—Arlinn Kord

No duelist is without equal in Paliano.
"Virile in war, he kept the north in fear; His prodigies subdued the western sphere."

"They say the eyes are the windows to the soul. I like to break windows and take what's inside."
—Braids, dementia summoner
The ritual of making draws upon the elves' memories and pasts. And elves have long memories and ancient pasts.
"As long as Rushwood glows, no life is ever truly lost."
—Ta-Karnst, Cho-Arrim healer
Victims are lucky if they remember ever having had what was lost.

"Is it true that the apes wear furs of gold when they marry?"
—Rana, Suq'Ata market fool



We all must profit for peace to last.
—Mercadian saying

"By tradition, we don't speak for two days after battle. If our deeds won't speak for themselves, what else could be said?"

"Monsters dwell in every heart. We only think civilization tames them." ―Euphemia, Nexus watcher
Bobbing merrily from opponent to opponent, the scimitar began adding playful little flourishes to its strokes; it even turned a couple of somersaults.
"The elves tend the forest, and the forest sustains the elves. My role is to ensure that the cycle continues."
"I joined this war to protect my homeland, not to destroy someone else's."
Now that it doesn't need to breathe, its hunting ground extends well beyond the sea.

"I have seen planes leveled and all life rendered to dust. It brought no pleasure, even to a heart as dark as mine."
—Sorin Markov
"My cats have taught me more about the sacred than anything in some old ruin."


"Cower, fiend. The night is yours no longer."

The mind is a beautiful bounty encased in an annoying bone container.

Even as the world was left cracked and gory by the marauding Eldrazi, new life began to drip from its wounds.


"This is your only warning, alchemist. The secrets of the sea are not yours to behold. Lord Krothuss will not be so merciful next time."
—Runo Stromkirk
"I have seen the true path. I will not warm myself by the fire—I will become the flame."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
An enlightened soul caged in a body made for battle.

It moved through the troops leaving no footprints, save on their souls.



"Once past the stony exterior, the meat is exquisite and can be stuffed with thallids or simmered in a broth of manticore venom."
—Asmoranomardicadaistinaculdacar
*The Underworld Cookbook*

Before the Great Sleep, the Necrons knew every corner of the galaxy, as only the ultimate conquerors could.
It's in the nature of fire to grow.



"If you weren't born with it, you don't need it."
—Grahilah, former trader of Amiqat
"This is a foul place. Cleanse it."

Hunger makes a leucrocota dangerous. A full belly makes it angry and dangerous.

"You have not died until I consent."
"I found a new toy. Wanna play?"
"Scholars still debate whether the Thallids were truly sentient."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. III*


"In your misguided attempt to subvert the law, you have eloquently explained why the law must exist."
Lightning burns the dragon's path.
"I pass to you all we have ever been. Go forth and become all we never could."

"Oh, thank the angels. It's not a werewolf, just a regular wo—"
—Bruno, Ulvenwald guide, last words

Fallen Phyrexians were transmuted into elementals by Gaea long ago, but Yavimaya's other inhabitants still regard them with unease.


It's hard to say which is more deadly: her bike or her bite.
Her song plucks the strings of the storm, shifting wind and storm into a harmony that will carry her ship to safety.



"Thraben belongs to the living. I will not rest until it is cleansed."


"Oathbreaker, I cast you out!"
It shines in the darkness of its master's ambitions.


"You brought this upon yourself, Sorin!"
"The merchant said their newt extract was cauldron safe!"
"Marchesa's poison is delivered by more than daggers."
—Adriana, Captain of the Guard
It keeps the upper reaches of the forest free of every menace . . . except for the spider itself.
A hunter in the city requires the utmost cunning to survive. It must pounce only if the kill is certain, and leave the remains where no one will see.
More than heat and the strength of his arm, it was his faith that gave the blade its unyielding edge.
"This is how wars are won—not with armies of soldiers but with a single knife blade, artfully placed."
—Yurin, royal assassin

"Is there anything in Guul Draz that *doesn't* suck the life out of you?"
—Tarsa, Sea Gate sell-sword
There are still a few places where the natural dangers outweigh even those posed by Phyrexian sleeper agents.



"Shed your faded husk! Emerge sleeker and stronger!"
—Tyris, fauna shaman
To survive imminent doom, it sometimes takes a foolhardy soul who acts first and fears later.
"What do you have that I cannot obtain?"
—Mairsil, the Pretender
The secrets she carried could have saved many lives, but they quietly drowned with her.

"I used to think penthouses were for jerks but I'm starting to see the appeal."

"It's a vicious circle. Stress breeds pain. Pain breeds stress. It's simply beautiful, wouldn't you agree?"
—Vradeen, vampire nocturnus
After lightning struck the cliffs, the ore became iron, the iron became steel, and the steel became greaves. The lightning never left.



"Hold on a second, I have just the thing."
With their life energy suppressed under their etherium enhancements, thieves from Esper found it surprisingly easy to explore the ruins of Grixis.

Pass me from soul to soul, / soldier to herder, herder to beast, beast to soil / until I am everywhere. / Then pass me those souls.
—Totem inscription (translated)

"Prepare to be boarded."
The Multiverse is filled with limitless power just waiting for someone to reach out and seize it.


"There is nothing you can do that I cannot simply deny."
—Ertai, wizard adept

Short lives lead to forbidden choices.

"Little flower twirl and bloom, arise from this your rocky tomb. Little warrior slash and brawl, be born again to free us all."
Vehicular mischief's appeal is universal.


"It's the oldest trick in the book," said Guff. "And I ought to know—I wrote it."
"All plans begin as dreams. I intend to awaken them."

"She walks among us unseen, learning from our imperfections."
—*The Seer's Parables*













"If it has ears, it will dance to my tune."
Whether trained, ridden, or eaten, few goblin military innovations have rivaled the bug.
Venser admired his handiwork and smiled. His first prototype had joined with the hive mind all too well, running with the brood and becoming a predator itself. This one, he thought, would be accepted into the hive but still obey his commands.
"I serve only justice. But through that duty, I serve all of Ravnica."



Zendikar's elves have developed innovative methods to mitigate the effects of the Roil.
"Don't mistake my creations for mere vegetation. They are my children, loyal and fierce."
"I give them dreams so wondrous that they hesitate to return to the world of the conscious."
—Garild, merfolk mage

"Embrace the strength of your Primarch, but deny the Red Thirst, brothers! There is no return from that darkest of paths."
"I have been gifted by the kami with long life. So far, they have not seen fit to withdraw their gift. There may yet be a way to stop the killing without more blood, human or kami, being spilled."
—Dosan the Falling Leaf



「哀れな迷える魔道士よ。足は地についていても、手は届かない。そうだろう？」
"The emergence of the Eldrazi isn't necessarily a bad thing, as long as you've already lived a fulfilling and complete life without regrets."
—Javad Nasrin, Ondu relic hunter

The daredevil racers of the Derby Crows, long at odds with the Consulate, were quick to join the renegades in open revolt.
Simple bargains are the most tempting, and oni bargains are the simplest of all: eternal life for eternal service.
"What separates us from mere beasts is the capacity for self-improvement."
"When the Simic say to take command of your life, we don't mean just your career."
—Vorel of the Hull Clade

Only Kiora would dare steal the weapon of a god. Only Kiora could have succeeded.

"Never forget that the life you've built can be undone by a single loose thread."
—Perisophia the philosopher

During their ascent to spirithood, patriarchs of Orzhova shed both flesh and emotion. This earthly slag is collected and formed into thrulls.







He is the only one who sees the patterns in the overlapping maps and conflicting reports.


Though its mind has long since rotted away, it wields a sword with deadly skill.
The mouth must be pried open before rigor mortis sets in. Otherwise the returning soul can find no ingress.
"In times of need, the forest creates its own protectors."
—Vivien Reid

The stench of rotting meat lures flies, goblins, and young raptors.
With the Hekma destroyed, the wandering dead that sought entrance to Naktamun had free rein to lay waste to the city.

Invented in Mishra's earlier days, the Rack was once his most feared creation.


"Commander, what's the signal to attack?"
"You'll know."
"How many people can you save in that thing?"
"All of them," replied the mage with a smile.
The source of the Cabaretti's Halo turned out to be a single teenage girl.
Better scarves than scars.



"Vodalian rank is displayed by the colors and patterns of their skin. Beware the color red; that is the badge of the empress's favor."
—Corbio, pearl diver
"From down here we can make the whole wall collapse!"
"Uh, yeah, boss, but how do we get out?"
Called "stonefeathers" by many lowlanders, rukhs are thought to descend from a phoenix that sacrificed its flame for a body of stone.


Erebos's minions hunt the Returned and warn those who consider the same folly.
"The fishers will throw out their nets and draw them back filled with dust."
—Oracle *en*-Vec



Urza eventually came to understand Tocasia's lessons on clarity of purpose. Perfection became his goal, and all other matters fell away in its pursuit.
Who would you trust to watch your back more than yourself?
"The tiniest ripple tells a story ten fathoms deep."

When Asha left Bant, she ensured that the world would have protection and order in her absence.

"We can fight with you or against you. After my day, I'd prefer the former."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*

Trained by the Imperials but disillusioned by their rigidity, he gave his heart—and his swords—to the Asari Uprising.

". . . The kingdoms three are now the stuff of dream,/ For men to ponder, past all praise or blame."

"There is power in abandon, but far more in control."
—Warden Hixus, to Kytheon


If you're looking for it, it's available. The question is how much you're willing to pay.



With the new guildmaster's innovations, arresters can arrive on the scene moments before a crime is committed.
Don't try to outrun one of Dominia's Grizzlies; it'll catch you, knock you down, and eat you. Of course, you could run up a tree. In that case you'll get a nice view before it knocks the tree down and eats you.

"Your world is formed from the same power that wraps my burning hand around your throat."
—Shrazik, lavamancer
The longer it skulks through the corrosive gases of Mephidross, the more it adopts their thirst for death.

The Wall of Bone is said to be an aspect of the Great Wall in Hel, where the bones of all sinners wait for Ragnarok, when Hela will call them forth for the final battle.

Some think that dryads are the dreams of trees.




"WE ARE FILLED WITH TICKETS. WE ARE FILLED WITH PURPOSE."
"Like ribbons of wind and wisdom the coatls fly, twisting mystery into truth, shaping the clouds to suit their inscrutable will."
—Huatli
The assassin sees only throats and hears only heartbeats.
Loose earth is not a burial but an appetizer.
At the market, no one heeded Hilda's frantic mooing. The fae curse was turning out even worse than she had feared.

The Izzet signet is redesigned often, each time becoming closer to a vanity portrait of Niv-Mizzet.


In lieu of payment, he was granted permission to devour any unauthorized visitors.


Few among the living understand just how much of their world is shaped by the ruins of the dead.
"I have suffered a thousand lifetimes of agony on this wretched world. I've far less time to share with you, but I assure you, no less pain."
—Ob Nixilis

Llanowar has seven elfhames, or kingdoms, each with its own ruler. Their palaces are objects of awe, wonder, and envy.
Dosan sat in repose for many hours. He made no motion, no sound at all. And as he sat, nature revealed itself to him.


Enter to find wealth, security, and eternal life . . . for just a small price up front.
To the sorrow of all, its rage became focused on those who once stoked it.
He experiences every emotion with passion and repays every slight with vengeance.

"Pain isn't a negative stimulus. Pain is a sign of your imperfection."
—Sheoldred, Whispering One
Good bodyguards are hard to find, mainly because they don't live long.
Zur remained aloof from Terisiare's suffering, intent only on his own perfection.
With carrion a rarity in the Broken Lands, the hyenas that stalk the deserts hunt in packs.





The battle's end is the meal's beginning.




"The ancient kor were a clever bunch with a taste for nasty traps. Spikes, poison, fire pouring forth with no warning . . . I've seen and disabled them all. If you intend to raid a Skyclave, you'd be wise to hire me on."
"Those may be the squirms of one life ending or of another beginning. Either way, I'd leave it alone."
—Rakka Mar
Nullstone absorbs and dampens most forms of magical energy, as well as light, sound, and heat.

The anointed work the mines without pause, their cartouches instilling them with tireless purpose.

"Nobody's seen the Lady of Videns for years. Poor dear, no companions at all in that old castle."
—Yonda of Gavony
"Fortune does not side with the faint-hearted."
—Sophocles, *Phaedra*

The Imperium's most peaceful worlds serve only to arm and supply the others.

"These days, soldiers never stick around long enough for a proper healing. They just want me to knit them up so they can hurry back to the fight."

Orcs are not exactly known for their valor—although most Orcs have seen countless battles, only a handful have actually fought in them.




It takes no prisoners, but it keeps the choicest bits for Phyrexia.
Each flower identical, every leaf and petal disturbingly exact.
The accusations spread like hungry flames.
"With me! Break this line and the rest will fall!"

"Don't worry, your death will be as informative as possible."
—Gorghul, augur of skulls



"Hunger is no different from any other foe; defeat it in the Emperor's name, and save Humanity."
—Motto of the Argi-World Viridia IV
Changelings can't remember where they came from. They just know it wasn't a cradle.


Don't forget to thank the Bus Driver.
"My foes serve me twice: in dying, and in death."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer

"Faith in Freyalise has given me the gift, not the curse, of unprecedented longevity."
—Laina of the Elvish Council




"After I examine your cargo and check your papers, you can be on your way."

Kings don't make knights. Actions do.
Dragons erupt from peaks of chaos and flow from rivers of molten rage.

"Let Phyrexia breed evil in the darkness; my holy light will reveal its taint."
—Serra


Rootwater merfolk are seldom seen these days, but elf corpses are as numerous as ever.

"Tyrants will always suffer consequences. My favorite are the fiery ones."
She wields a blade as bloodthirsty and elegant as herself.
More than one mage has been driven insane by the sound of the millstone relentlessly grinding away.
As their supplies of etherium dwindled, mechanists sent gargoyles farther and farther afield in search of salvage.




"It's not much for eating, but I think we can find somethin' to do with it."



The bower shuddered. The stillness broke. The scurf shifted, and a being emerged from the flowers and ferns.




"These halls are sacred. You *will* be silent."
"When I arrived, I was looking for the costume shop. But when I left, I'd learned what I was really looking for: myself. Five stars."
—*Salzon's Ride Review*

The Izzet signet is redesigned often, each time becoming closer to a vanity portrait of Niv-Mizzet.


Just as the most finely wrought metal can warp and rust, so too does Mirrodin buckle under pressures from without and within.
The mating habits of Treefolk, particularly the stalwart Ironroot Treefolk, are truly absurd. Molasses comes to mind. It's amazing the species can survive at all given such protracted periods of mate selection, conjugation, and gestation.

Only one vault was great enough to hold Emrakul.
"Sure, you can help me calibrate the aiming mechanism. Stand over there."



Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.

The harder your strike, the stronger her defense.
"I can't hear them scream, but at least I don't have to listen to them beg."
—Phage the Untouchable
Some humans willingly offered up their blood, hoping it would grant the vampire families the strength to stave off the Eldrazi.
In a strange twist of fate, one of the most annoying creatures in the multiverse was brought to the place where it could cause the most damage.
Before the officiant even had a chance to ask if anyone objected to the Voldaren-Markov union, Arlinn made her opinion known.
Once tasted, the flavor of skullmead lingers in the throat, a secret brand of guilt for those who partake in forbidden pleasures.
The elves of Urborg are as deadly and capricious as the swamp itself.
"To truly know something, you must become it. The trick is to not lose yourself in the process."
The golems of the ancient Thran still draw power in ways that baffle the artificers of today.
"When the levelers come again, we shall be ready for them."
"What you are attempting is not against the law. It is, however, extremely foolish."

Even the most benevolent and life-giving of kami joined the war against the mortal world, but only with heavy and sorrowful hearts.
The *Predator* roared like an unruly beast, and the *Weatherlight* suddenly listed. "No!" screamed Hanna.


Through blood and battle, scouts are forged from raw recruits into the Imperium's finest.
"To survive, we must embrace the savagery we knew in our race's infancy."
—Edgar Markov


In the autumn, she casts her seeds across the streets below, and come spring, her children rise in service to the Conclave.

"This item is not from . . . now. It reflects a sky no longer ours and gleams with hope that does not exist."
—Tavalus, acolyte of Korlis
When the alliance between Balduvia and Kjeldor deprived Stromgald of easy victories, its agents were forced to fuel their rituals with their own flesh.





The audience always loves it, but volunteers are divided.
Like thousands of others, the beebles quit Magic for several years following the release of the *Mercadian Masques* set.
"A beauty made more so by its fleeting visitations."
—Teferi

"The treasures of the ancients belong in museums, not in the grubby hands of grave robbers."


Far from human eyes, birds flit between vivid blossoms in a hidden paradise.
"Silumgar's mind is a dark labyrinth, full of grim secrets and subtle traps."
—Siara, the Dragon's Mouth
A steed grows with its rider.

"I reeled from the blow, and then suddenly, I knew exactly what to do. Within moments, victory was mine."
—Gustha Ebbasdotter,
Kjeldoran royal mage
Forged out of flowstone for the queen of Vesuva.
The rod is a relic from ancient times . . . cruel, vicious, mean-spirited times.
Most of the spirits that haunt Urborg were once ordinary people, even children, twisted beyond recognition by the swamp's corrupted mana.





Five gods, one purpose.
"He has returned. He who brought the dark ones. He who poisoned our paradise. How shall we greet him? With swift and certain death!"
—Radiant, archangel


They ride on waves of Æther, washing out anything that might pollute the Merrow Lanes.


The Order of the Skyward Eye does the bidding of an evil force, unwittingly stirring fear and mistrust across Bant in accordance with his plans.
"Never corner a barbarian. You become the path of least resistance."
—Sarkhan Vol
"Any good prospector must sift the gold from the sand."

Made in its creator's image, though slightly more clangy.



Dread Marit Lage lies dreaming, not dead.
"The few remaining pieces from this period suggest the Dwarves eventually made weapons and armor out of everything, even children's toys."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV*
Warmth is life; heat is peace.
A momentary lapse is all it needs to break free.


"The Simic come from the cold slow depths. How could they understand the fire in a wild heart?"
—Kroshkar, Gruul shaman
Untouched by mortal or kami, unspoiled by their wars.


"Peril is in the eye of the beholder. At least, if your aim is good."
—Jaya Ballard




His fists fume with the decay of death, each strike a plague on the hearts of his enemies.




No ancient lore ties the pirates of the Brazen Coalition to the Immortal Sun. But it's a powerful ancient artifact in a city of gold—what's not to covet?
Selkies call to a sea they never swam, in a tongue they never spoke, with a song they never learned.

The storm rages and the earth breaks.


Moving without sound, swift figures pass through branches and undergrowth completely unhindered. One with the trees around them, the Dryads of Shanodin Forest are seen only when they wish to be.

It holds motionless vigil, watching Naya in silence through the screen of the whitecover. When it senses anything amiss, it launches forward with the uncanny sound of torn fog.
The murdered inhabitants of Hollowhenge impart to the living the terror they felt in death.
For years scholars debated whether these were Urza's or Mishra's creations. Recent research suggests they were invented by the brothers' original master, Tocasia, and that both used these devices.
Some druids nurture gardens. Others nurture continents.


"My earliest work escapes me."
—Stitcher Geralf

"A well-trained force brings peace . . . which brings more time for training!"


In the silence of the ice, even dreams become still.


"We've survived starvation, dwarf attacks, and heatstroke. Why should a little sandstorm bother us?"
"When you're a goblin, you don't have to step forward to be a hero—everyone else just has to step back!"
—Biggum Flodrot, goblin veteran
"The trick to talking sense into Keldons is getting them to hold still."



"How could you not hear it approach? It's a hippo!"
—Argivian commander

"I have seen a hundred mortal families rise and fall. I shall outlast a thousand more."
—Olivia Voldaren
On Theros, the dove is a symbol not of peace but of discovery. Quick wings herald the arrival of a revelation.


Dread was as foreign to her as the landscape ahead.
"All the coins in Ravnica can't save his soul now."
—Narbulg Nine Fingers

Along the outer girders, in gold filigree, are inscribed the names of all those who fell to their deaths during construction.
Most human scholars believe that Merfolk are the survivors of sunken Atlantis, humans adapted to the water. Merfolk, however, believe that humans sprang forth from Merfolk who adapted themselves in order to explore their last frontier.

His soul snared by an angel's curse, Crovax twisted heroism into its purest shadow.
"Know your foes' strengths as well as their weaknesses."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"Sturdy nails make for sound sleep."
—Cosper Lowe of the Silbern Guard

"O to be a dragon . . . of silkworm size or immense . . ." —Marianne Moore, "O to Be a Dragon"
Many people say that no power can bring the mountains low. Many people are fools.


Emerald dragons hate prying eyes, and they have a host of ways to deter them.
Yipping and cackling, the hunters tore through the village, leaving nothing but snapped bones and burning homes in their wake.

"I don't *think* so."


While trapping the Eldrazi on Zendikar, Ugin learned little from Sorin, but he gleaned the rudiments of lithomancy from Nahiri.
"I got it! I got it! I—"
Warm enough to incubate eggs or incinerate those who would eat them.


"Only fools believe they will face my armies but once."
—Kaervek

What doesn't grow, dies. And what dies grows the tarmogoyf.
"Not all paths are found on the forest floor."


"I appreciate the artistry of the telemins, but the creatures of the other worlds provide a much more dramatic performance."
—Ennor, mentalist
It left behind an echoing emptiness more horrible than the grave.

"My brother and I both come from Balthor's forge. Kamahl has a temper of fire. I have a temper of steel."



"Together we can build a safer, brighter New Capenna!"
Those who worship the great gargantuans could hardly be expected to fight with a subtle weapon.


"When I say it rained, it was not small drops, but a thick, greasy drool pouring from the heavens."
—Urza, journal



Every little cub has its mother's teeth to guard it.
—Elvish saying
"This scum is barely worth the trouble."



And their bleating was like a wet salmon slapped upon the land—slap! slap! slap!
Enter and comprehend the perfection of orchestrated life.



"Emeria is a pleasant lie, a figment to hide Emrakul's hideous face. I can only hope to uncover a truth that lies deeper still."
"Serve me, and live forever."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer




Only a villain would unleash a giant fan on anyone!
"These fiends are slightly less tolerable than you."
"A sentiment that warms my heart, sister."
The shaman looked at the world through Ghalta's eyes and understood that everything else was his prey.


"Sold out I'm afraid, but Wrenns Three through Six are on sale."
—Lonak, sales manager





"Forgive me," Mirri whispered. "I thought you a burden, and you saved my life." Hanna quietly accepted the apology.

"Our glorious infection has taken hold."
—Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite

"A key weakness in the design is its vulnerability to repeated, forceful blows."

"Leave no scraps, lest you attract pests."
—Mardu threat
"Why would I kill you all? Who then would be left to worship me?"

"Peace is a privilege you haven't earned."
—Tevesh Szat
The smartest—and only—goblin cabin boy aboard the *Weatherlight*, Squee has learned that intelligence and common sense are very different things. This matters little, however, since he has neither. Fortunately, he doesn't know what he's missing.
"When one wolf calls, others follow. Who wants to fight creatures that eat scorpions?" —Maimun al-Wyluli, *Diary*

"Within every angel is a spirit of light that will fight as long as there is darkness."


"I tolerate Phyrexians because the dragon requires it. But I have no patience for uninvited guests."
—Tezzeret
I tell you, there was so many arrows flying about you couldn't hardly see the sun. So I says to young Angus, "Well, at least now we're fighting in the shade!"

"Bury your dead deep. The boars are hungriest while the corpse is still warm."
—Paulin, trapper of Somberwald
The first step of every exodus is from the blood and the fire onto the trail.


Opportunity makes the thief.
—Roman proverb
"Get behind me!"
"All that steel doesn't make them slower. It makes them bolder."
—Tajic, Blade of the Legion
It flickered to life, saw itself alone, and began to build.
"All you gotta do is walk with purpose. And run with purpose. And clear a five-foot gate with purpose."
"This is the price of being last in the food chain. We must keep our places of beauty hidden away instead of displayed for all to see."
—Hildin, priest of Avacyn



He loved his cities in the clouds. When he traveled to the lands below, he brought many reminders of his home.



"Many have sought my weakness. All have failed."



When properly aligned, hedrons become powerful tools of binding.





Its wide-reaching roots draw more than water.
A passionate recruiter will win a war before the first arrow flies.



"Once I supply the breeze, you'll see your warriors for the smoke they truly are."
—Alexi, zephyr mage
They turn geological upheaval into tactical advantage.
Kytheon and his irregulars worked outside the law to bring justice to the streets of Akros.
"There's an assortment to satisfy all your needs: deep, fleeting, dirty, pure, scientific, philosophical, after, and even fore. For a price."

She wished for a weapon, but not for the skill to wield it.



Its graceful glide paints the ocean floor with strokes of luminescence.
"Organization is often undervalued but rarely unjustified."
—Frasio, royal archivist

Rarely seen, hardly heard, never caught.
"We expected the Argothians to stand their ground. We didn't expect the ground itself to stand."
—Myrel, Shield of Argive



"The Vanished must have sent it from beyond to aid us in this struggle."
—Kessla, Sylvok shaman

"We could never accept anyone with a face that pretty or a mind that sane."
—Nyoser, Gore-House ringleader

It turns prey into predator.

"I am irrelevant. The future I hold in my hands is everything."


"Spread out, you idiots! Spread out!"
—Marsden, party leader, last words




A circle of sugar and a word of forbiddance.

"Have you ever held a Boros signet? There's a weight to it that belies its size—a weight of strength and of pride."
—Agrus Kos
The best funeral shroud is the fabric of new life.
A few coins soon grow into an obsession.
Treefolk and elves share a common interest in the forests, but really the elves just feel at home with the view from above.
"The law has its place—as a footnote in my spellbook."
—Siyani, fugitive mage
"Well, that's one way to scatter her ashes."
—Calvey, funeral director

"For us, a rope represents the ties that bind the kor. For you, it's more literal."
"Those idiots should never have bred thrulls for combat!"
—Jherana Rure
"Those who are different are untrustworthy, unpredictable. Put your safety in the hands of your own kind."
—Bowen, Barrenton guardcaptain

Wherever they went, the Keldons transformed the land into a weapon.
The Mirari called to the centaurs, and all who heard it were forever changed.
Life will find a way, or it will make one.


"At harvest are seeds of next year sown."
"The essence of a lawful society is swift deterrence."
"Doves and pigeons are too subtle. When I send a message, I want it to have some teeth."
—Aeschel, royal diplomat
Lying to a fish is such an unthinkable act, most planets don't even have a law against it.
On Innistrad, Liliana embraced necromancy, honing her powers by practicing on scores of undead@-and sometimes the living.

"The admixture of bitterwort in the viral brew has produced most favorable results."
—Phyrexian progress notes



"When the land is angry, so are they."
—Nissa Revane
"The mind of an Eldrazi is a puzzle that can never be solved. The trick is to make sure a piece goes missing."
—Jace Beleren

Having flesh is increasingly a liability on Mirrodin.
"Next to Law is Duty, and Duty must be obeyed. If the frame of Duty is broken, none shall weave life's fabric."
—*Song of All*, canto 167
Deserted, but not uninhabited.
Bring the spear of ancient briar; Bring the torch to light the pyre. Bring the one who trod our ground; Bring the spade to dig his mound.
It has waited a millennium just for you, and for a millennium will it watch over your descendants.

Soothing whispers invite travelers to step closer, closer, closer . . . until they vanish soundlessly beneath the surface.
The stones hark back to an age before civilization, when the living earth blessed all who trod its untamed wilds.

You are who you eat.




Its crystalline core refracts light into chaos.





"I knew this day would come," said Urza. Looking at the destruction, Barrin sighed, "You don't have to revel in it."
"According to accepted theory, the grenade held some kind of flammable mixture and was carried to its target by a hapless goblin."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV*

In war, as in society, position is everything.

From time, knowledge. From knowledge, power.
Jund feasts on the unprepared.
A strict upgrade over the cinder hatchet.
"Everyone has a price."




"What was once formed by masons, shaped by smiths, or given life by mages, I will return to the embrace of the earth."
The hound sniffed the air and let slip a low growl. General Takeno looked down at the faithful Isamaru and calmed him with a touch. "Alert the men. The kami are coming."
"Many thought they knew its weakness. They are dead."
—Kelsien, the Plague
One faerie distracts the judge while a second steals the law.
"Now that I've dealt with your little toys, I can focus on the real problem: you."
—Chandra Nalaar, to Dovin Baan



The one you see is just a diversion.

As you explore the slums of the Outer City, you keep hearing rumors of a den of werewolves in the caves below Dusthawk Hill.



His verdict is always guilty. His sentence is always death.
Die beneath a tree, wake up a part of it.
With every step she took, a new world unfolded before her.
"All will bow to the Whispering One."


Thievery requires subtlety, from the beginning of the heist to the end.

A substantial portion of Vorinclex's forces became fuel for the rest.
"O Great Captain, all is lost. They tunneled, they burrowed, they trenched. They sapped the strength of our defenses."
—Sorgus, *Chronicles of the Quarum Plains*
The smallest seed of regret can bloom into redemption.
"The landscape shimmered and I felt a chill breeze. When my vision cleared, I found myself alone among the corpses of my fallen friends."
—Journal found in Numai
Beneath the waves, lost gods stir in their slumber.



The cave floods with light. A thousand rays shine forth and meld into one.
"Toralf struck the ground with his hammer, and the force of a thousand storms tore through the demonic horde."
@-Birgi, god of storytelling

"Shine bright, bolts tight."
"The wizards of Takenuma Swamp faced the horrors of humanity every day. It's no wonder they fared so well against the kami."
—*Observations of the Kami War*
"Wear it at all times. It will guide our reanimators to your corpse."
—Mazirek, kraul death priest
His child-lifting act was second only to his cauldron-punting routine.
You don't want to see his trophy room.


"Take a quiet moment to reflect on your sins."
—Cleph, Order of Redeemed Souls
"Why butcher an army when you can slash a single throat for the same result?"
"Our unity unmasks your deceit."
"Duke, Duke, Duke, Duke of Pearl . . . ."
It stands sentinel to the great City-Tree, home of the Selesnya Conclave.


Mishra's army demanded the secrets of the Third Path. Hurkyl's followers graciously showed them.
Healers ultimately acquire the divine gifts of spiritual and physical wholeness. The most devout are also granted the ability to pass physical wholeness on to others.
Otaria's epidemic of insanity didn't affect certain barbarians—but no one noticed.
"More children taken. This is an evil we will track without mercy."
—Anthousa of Setessa
"A crafter must imbue her weapon with part of her soul—something the Phyrexians are incapable of doing."
—Melira
"If it would end this exile, my life is yours."
It harmonizes with the essence of its master.
"Sometimes I stroll along Tin Street and watch citizens busy with their daily lives. It reminds me why I do my job."
—Arrester Lavinia, Tenth Precinct

"With a diet of hydras, giants, and massive serpents, anything would get that big."
—Corisande, Setessan hunter

Sometimes the cannoneer must become the cannonball.



Ob Nixilis decided the fastest way to seize control of New Capenna would be to usurp the networks of power already hidden there. Xander's Maestros were the first to fall.


She stands as a living symbol of the natural world and an enemy of the forces that threaten it.


Jund's dragons hoard only sangrite crystals. Its wurms aren't so picky.
A rock between your eyes hurts. A burning rock between your eyes ruins your whole day.

To protect the alliance between Kjeldor and Yavimaya, they trained in the ways of both.

Nature grows solutions to its problems.

"Ruhan would never agree to such terms."
—Ruhan of the Fomori


"Sure, you can get one elsewhere . . . if you want a knockoff that'll break the first time you use it."



"My heart filled with warmth, and I felt my feet lift from the ground. Suddenly, I was free—free to soar, the homes beneath me shrinking to specks on a map."

"Ixalli's fertile rays enliven us all. Each of us is a testament to the sun's strength and love."
—Chitlati, Lightning Rider




Critics were struck first by the elemental's surprising grace, and then by its fists.




"The treasure in my mind is greater than any worldly glory."
"A thousand sparks can burn through your defenses just as quickly as one massive blaze."
—Attikar, Akoum elementalist
It started as a mere drop of water. The Magic Mirror crystallized it into much more.

"What warrior worth the name fears to leave a trail? If my enemies seek me, let them follow the ashes in my wake."

The Dawnhart survivors welcome recruits of all shapes and sizes.
"Indulge me. Just one spell. One potentially fatal spell gone horribly awry."
Like most features of Grixis, the obelisks that remain from the time of Alara now exist only for dark exploitation.

To look into its light is to meet the gaze of history.
"Without their massive numbers, the Goblins could never have launched such a successful offensive."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. VI*

"Kinjalli's encompassing rays herald new life in the moment of the sun's dawning."
—Chitlati, Lightning Rider

Malice spreads on wings of tyranny.

"We grow strong by feasting on failure."
—Izoni


If you're smaller than the anaconda, it considers you food. If you're larger than the anaconda, it considers you a lot of food.



The forest was too lush for the brothers to despoil—almost.
The new cannon's destructive power more than made up for its unpredictable blast radius.

"It is the nature of humanity not to worry about tomorrow, especially when there's a good chance they won't live to see the end of today."
—Kiku, Night's Flower
Where air meets water, fish meets talon.

"Dead or alive, my creations are stronger than Jin-Gitaxias's septic minions."
—Vorinclex, Voice of Hunger

The impact sent the soldiers scattering—then something came out of the crater.
"Swords may sunder. Shields may fail. My will is stronger than steel, and my flesh and bone far more deadly."

Follow the light. In its absence, follow her.
"In the forest, fires light the sky as black clouds unfold their weight."
—"Love Song of Night and Day"

"Rejoice, eyeblight. In your last hours above the earth, those who bury you will finally make you beautiful."



"Pick not the rotten fruit, but neither touch the best. Leave those as an offering for our unseen guests."
—Radwick, farmer of Gatstaf
"Llanowar's boughs are ever ready
To unleash an autumn of steel leaves."
—"Song of Freyalise"




Which is worse—the sleep which never ends or that which never comes?
A healthy felidar is voracious yet regal. A rabid felidar is nothing more than appetite lashed to frothing jaws.

The currents of the Marang wash away both tracks and blood.





"Dauthi blood is soltari wine."
—Soltari Tales of Life


Trained in the arts of stealth, royal assassins choose their victims carefully, relying on timing and precision rather than brute force.



He vowed he would never rest until he reached his destination. He doesn't know how right he was.
"I serve the soft light of the moon that holds back the terrors of the night. I serve the bonds between us, driving out the fear that would break us apart."

"Pulled a Captain Nebula"
—Crew expression meaning "an out-of-control car has caused great damage to the surrounding area"
Bant is a world where death and chaos hold no sway.

"Nothing could ruin such a fine day, Saffi."

Auntie excitedly held up the squalling newborn. "This one looks like Byoog! Maybe he'll tell us what he saw and felt in the beyond."

Gruul territorial markings need not be legible. The blood, snot, and muck used to smear them are unmistakably Gruul.



"Stroke of heat or stroke of blade. Choose your fate, traitor."
—Maraxus of Keld, to Starke

"Have you ever held a Boros signet? There's a weight to it that belies its size—a weight of strength and of pride."
—Agrus Kos

Natural crystalline growths filter and refract light in dazzling displays that attract pollinators and daze predators.



"Is it true that the apes wear furs of gold when they marry?"
—Rana, Suq'Ata market fool
Neurok spies carry devices that let them look a few moments into the future, giving them an almost insurmountable edge.

"Assume everything wants to kill you. At the very least, assume everything wants what's in your pack."


Though giants are mortal, they live so long and on such a grand scale that many small folk don't believe they ever truly die.

The Battle of Tomakul taught Urza not to rely on fickle reinforcements.
"To victory! To glory! To eternity!"


When the Mirran resistance arrived, the furnace dwellers looked to Urabrask for guidance. His decree stunned the others: "Let them be."

The first spell taught to young mages, it has spared the lives of many whose hands are too small to hold a sword.
"There is no age at which you stop learning."
"Intruders in the lands of Atarka have but two choices: be consumed by fire, or be consumed by maw."
—Ulnok, Atarka shaman

"Eyeblights are easy to track. Just follow the imperfections."
Just a small touch of magic can harness the debilitating power of Urborg's poisonous winds.
Nomad youths aspire to one of two roles in the tribe: priest or warrior. Their secret dream is to become both.
Each scar on its hide is a badge of honor.

The wurm's wake
—Elvish expression meaning "ruined crops"
Its blessings are as numerous as the stars of Nyx.

A job well done means a rest well earned.
The only sound was the gentle clicking of the Faeries' wings. Then those intruders who were still standing turned and fled. One thing was certain: they didn't think the Scryb were very funny anymore.
"If they move, kill them. In fact, kill one now to make sure the other understands."

The Taskmaster knows that there is no cure for the common Kobold.
"Fall to your knees and welcome our embrace."
—Qal-Sha, Priest of Norn
Bottom feeders sometimes rise to the top.

"Will not the mountains quake and hills melt at the coming of the darkness? Share this vision with your enemies, Lim-Dûl, and they shall wither."
—Leshrac, Walker of Night
"The Mwonvuli Jungle has given the darkness teeth for tearing the gift of life from the weak."
—Jolrael

The market is now closed.




Ayula's runic clawmarks ensure her territories are never left defenseless.
"A riddle is nothing more than a trap for small minds, baited with the promise of understanding."
Mastery is achieved when "telling time" becomes "telling time what to do."
The Mercadians' ineptitude in close combat sometimes accidentally pays off.

"Nature has grown tired of the impositions of men and will begin to outfit its creations with tools for bloody instruction."
—Hadi Kasten, Calla Dale naturalist




"Once each year, the oni and other evil spirits paraded through villages to disturb mortals' sleep. During the war, this parade became a nightly event."
—*Observations of the Kami War*

"I have chosen my path. Who will walk it with me?"
—Eladamri
Izzet artificers have learned to steer their beautiful constructs clear of Boros warhammers—and the opera house.


Hellions measure their meals in mountains.

Innistrad pyromancers find their best raw materials in the fury of the dead.

To understand Baldur's Gate, one must first understand how wealth and commerce shape every facet of life.

Confront her, and feel the hooves of her steed. Ignore her, and feel the sting of her arrow.


"These roads are desolate and changeable. Follow me, or die in the wastes."
"Nothing is as it seems."
—Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen

"We remember. We rise."

"Flea circus? No, flee circus!"

"A gargoyle's meat can be carved with an ordinary cleaver, but for its petrous hide . . ."
—Asmoranomardicadaistinaculdacar, *The Underworld Cookbook*


The first searchlights were given as gifts, symbols of cooperation, to the emissaries present at the signing of the Guildpact.

"Some dreams should not come to be."


The maze-like design embodies the core of Azorius law—strict structure designed to test wills and stall change.
"The elves may try to confine us, but they will learn that our blazing spirit can never be suppressed."
—Vessifrus, flamekin demagogue


He became elder shaman when his predecessor was mysteriously struck by lightning on a cloudless day.
The musical sound of its turning triggers the tumblers of revelation.

Where the holy light of the angels has shone, only purity remains.










Her prophecies amaze her even as she speaks them.
"When are trees like grass?"
—*The One Thousand Questions*
"The ceremony ended with a voice from the shadows, a voice with vast, ominous power."
—Kifimbo, Shadow Guildmage

"Bant's most gallant knights wear my sigil, and for that I am humbled."
Kaladesh's illicit marketplaces are known as "night markets," but if you know who to ask, you can find what you're looking for at any time of the day.


"Your eyes aren't playing tricks on you. I am."
The spirits of all the rivers and oceans came together as an unstoppable force, unleashing their fury as lightning and thunder.
Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.


Bones scattered around us joined to form misshapen bodies. We struck at them repeatedly—they fell, but soon formed again, with the same mocking look on their faceless skulls.

"Just the thing for those pesky water mages."
—Jaya Ballard, task mage


The sculptor, like most artists, put his heart and soul into his work. But the newly awakened golem decided it wanted its creator's other, more tangible parts.
Nagas wielding twin daggers excel at the fighting technique known as the Bite of Rhonas.


To the last, Bontu wanted only to be first among the God-Pharaoh's subjects.






"I fell to my knees. I called out to Sigarda. And then I saw my tormentors blaze with blessed sunlight."


Dawn's Light, greatest palace of Gilt-Leaf Wood, is built on tiers of wood and power.
"Tonight, madam, it's your money *and* your life."
Boggarts revel in discovering new sensations, from the texture of an otter pellet to the squeak of a dying warren mate.
"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim."
—Sisay, captain of the *Weatherlight*
Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.




Chandra never believed in using her "inside voice."


"Blood flows. Blood calls. Blood devours all and only blood remains."
—Ogre chant
Even what is lost beyond recall returns when coaxed by a dryad's hand.

"The secret entrance should be near."

It's harvest time.


"Time is fluid as a dance, and truth as fleeting."

"As this conflict grows, it gets harder to prevent the city from breaking down. How much longer can we keep this machinery balanced?"

"Might of ancient wood and stone, Into spirit, flesh, and bone."
"A pact is a tool, not a damnation."
The mouth must be pried open before rigor mortis sets in. Otherwise the returning soul can find no ingress.
"One who ruled willing subjects would need no such protection."
—Adriana, Captain of the Guard

"Salvation will not be granted by the Lunarch Council. It must be earned-at the edge of a sword, if necessary."
A ghoulcaller's playground.

Though less well-known than its army of soldiers, the Boros Legion's mage-priests are as respected by the innocent as they are hated by the ghosts of the guilty.
Dweldian magi don't enter the Realm of Thrones when they die. Instead their souls are drawn to great works of magic.

A taut slipknot trigger is the only thing standing between you and standing.
They both hunger for battle.

They labor beside the anointed, constructing the vast monuments of Naktamun.



Just one can feed a dozen people for a month.
Even when the flesh grows cold, knowledge waits in the bones for a master to release it.
There may exist powers even greater than Phyrexia.
Harbormasters tend to forget that security shouldn't stop at the surface.


"'I have arrived,' bellowed Brawn, and the plane shuddered."
—Scroll of Beginnings


He has no patience for minds that do not inspire him or explode by trying.
They'll attack whatever's in front of them—as long as you tell them where that is.
Steel weapons hold a forbidden allure to some of the younger Yavimayans.
The delight of discovery drives the pursuit of knowledge.
"You bound me with a contract only your death could end—and you thought me the fool?"
—Liliana Vess
"The most powerful dreams visit those who shelter in a dragon's skull."
—Chianul, Who Whispers Twice
The oil created the mycosynth. The mycosynth created New Phyrexia.
When the ground is saturated with mana, even the lightest footstep can bring it to the surface.

"Werewolves leave tracks. Vampires leave wrung-out corpses. This is something else."
—Paulin, trapper of Somberwald
"My skill sharpens with each beat of my wings."
"It's not a matter of deserving. It's a matter of strength. The power to hold versus the power to take."

The apprentice stared in puzzlement. "But Master, you finished writing those spells just yesterday. Don't you remember?" The jushi's heart froze.
"The young can be quite dangerous. Trust me, I should know."
—Ertai, wizard adept

"Pound the steel until it fits. Doesn't work? Bash to bits."
—Dwarven forging song

For the first time in his life, Grakk felt a little warm and fuzzy inside.
"We have safe houses in every zone, but you'll never find one without this."


All the angel saw was her doom.



"Their arrival marks the end of Yawgmoth's subtlety."
—Urza

"The appearance of these warped stones throughout the provinces is too pervasive to be random. More evidence is needed to determine the reason behind them."
—Tamiyo's journal

"I will show you fear in a handful of dust."
—T. S. Eliot, "The Waste Land"

"Words of power never disappear. They sleep, awaiting those with the will to rouse them."



The battlefield became so pockmarked with craters and trenches that casualties were regularly attributed to "fell in a hole."
Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.


He roams the streets of Havengul seeking the sick and delirious so that he may cure them of their lives.

"Do as I think, not as I do."
—Jace Beleren
The earth cannot hold that which magic commands.
Defending to the death isn't always enough.

"The best experiments are those whose successes replicate themselves."
—Yolov, Simic bioengineer

Soul and bones, kithkin are woven into their clans. They fight fiercely and without self-interest.

"Don't look at it! Maybe it'll go away!"
—Ib Halfheart, goblin tactician
Alarmed by the news you brought, the storm giant king of the Maelstrom has called his kin to council.
Goblin lairs sit high in Jund's mountains. This gives the goblins easy access to the sacrificial peaks above and lets them build up a head of steam before attacking prey down below.
"Spontaneous combustion is a myth. If you burst into flame, someone wanted you to."
—Chandra Nalaar
As the Eternal's cold fingers tightened around his throat, Domri realized what kind of master he had rushed to serve.
When an order for griffin barding comes in, blacksmiths prepare their forges for months of exacting work. They know griffins always detect imperfections and never haggle.



It doesn't need to breathe, but the suit does help keep the parts together.

A match for any army—even its own.

"And in their blind and unattaining state their miserable lives have sunk so low that they must envy every other fate."
—Dante, *Inferno*, trans. Ciardi



They often perch on street lamps, causing the poles to buckle under their weight.

BOOM!


Most spies sneak into enemy camps. These spies sneak into enemy minds.


The Archaeovist of the Solemnace Galleries will not rest until every treasure in the galaxy is safely within his clutches.
"It is not yours to hunt, mortal. Be content with its beauty alone."
—Nylea, god of the hunt
"Amazing, isn't it, what humans will throw away when they're drowning?"
"There is great wisdom in rushing headlong into combat . . . if you're prepared."
—Kenjek, captain of the Thousand Swords





"I'm not one for pretty things," said Sisay. "Unless they're pretty useful as well."


Being engulfed is just the beginning of the nightmare.

Its open mouth is a furnace blast that blisters the skin. Its smoking fists are meteors that split the earth.

"Everything the wise woman learned she wrote in a book, and when the pages were black with ink, she took white ink and began again."
—Karn, silver golem

"I will not rest until every vestige of the Consulate—every banner, flag, and standard—has fallen."

"Yawgmoth spent eons wrapping Phyrexians in human skin. They are the sleeper agents, and they are everywhere."
—Xantcha, to Urza

"Three such creatures stood burning at the crest of the hill. Only seconds later, the Fireball struck our front line." —Lydia, Countess Brellis

Every world is a work in progress, constantly reshaped by time, disasters, and even the powerful magic of Planeswalkers.
Sisay discovered that the mirrored hull of the *Weatherlight* could be used as a defensive weapon.


"Our unity renews our strength."
The owls learn of mana from the mages who know it best.






Its victims feel only an itchy, wriggling feeling just under their skin. By then, it's far too late.
"I have seen and heard much here. There are secrets within secrets. Let me show you."
—Takara, to Eladamri
"Show yourself, thief."
Bladehold houses a rogues' gallery filled with the living "statues" of the worst enemies of the Auriok.

Moving without sound, swift figures pass through branches and undergrowth completely unhindered. One with the trees around them, the Dryads of Shanodin Forest are seen only when they wish to be.





"The Filigree Texts do not compel you to act in accordance with their precepts. They only specify the consequences should you fail."
—Lodus of the Ethersworn

"My soldiers fought without hesitation, died without doubt."
—Sidar Jabari


"Good girl."

The end of the world rarely comes quietly.



"Mana lurks in all things, even in the depths of one's own heart."
"Fools dig for water, corpses, or gold. The earth's real treasure is far deeper."
One wizard's trash is another wizard's roving gang of abominations.

"Avacyn emerged from the broken Helvault, but her freedom came at a price—him."
—Thalia, Knight-Cathar

Each temple is a door to a horrible future.


Centuries of wind, rain, and roots compressed into an instant of destruction: such is the power of Selesnya.
"As the knight struggled to stand, his squire took up his blade. The foe advanced not a single step."
—Krinnea, *Siege of the Bone Spire*




"Before armor, there was bark. Before blades, there were thorns."
—Molimo, maro-sorcerer
"If I ever need a haircut, I just fall a little to the left."
Deep within the Cabal's vault, the Mirari pulsed like a dead sun-and its darkness radiated across Otaria.


Even through the Mirari's voice, the elves still hear the call of their kinship.



The key did not work on a single lock, yet it opened many doors.
"Serra isn't dead. She lives on through me."
"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim."
—Sisay
Tedious research made the Sages of the College of Lat-Nam adept in repairing broken artifacts.
"The geode must be mined in moonlight and broken open by a silver hammer."
—*Tome of Obstructions*

"It followed me home. Can I keep it?"

"The raging winds . . . , settling on the sea, the surges sweep, / Raise liquid mountains, and disclose the deep."
—Virgil, *Aeneid, Book I*, trans. Dryden
"From a sea of infinite possibilities, our choices create the future."
—Mu Yanling
Aboard her ship, the *Dragon's Smile*, Kari follows no one's rules but her own.
All Dominarians agreed on one thing: they would not go down without a fight.




An end to reason, an end to order. Forget all that has been.
"The scavengers who first found it called it the 'Bone Crank.' Not a bad name, I'd say."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
When no falcons fly, beware the sky.
—Femeref aphorism

Remade by Eldrazi magic, Tuktuk inspired an entire clan of misguided goblins.








Deep in the heart of Urborg lie massive volcanoes whose thick black smoke covers the land with perpetual darkness.
Sometimes destruction is Dominaria's way of rebuilding. Sometimes it's not.


Mountain ogres allowed blizzards to sheathe them in ice, both to reinforce their armor and to hide their pungent musk from potential prey.

By guild tradition, any puddle of multicolored light on the cobblestones can serve as neutral ground.
Wordlessly it leads its abhorrent brood.
"I'm one masterpiece away from ruling this pathetic world."
—Saldrath, master artificer
"From Gaea grew the world, and the world was silent. From Gaea grew the world's elves, and the world was silent no more."
—Elvish teaching


Cliffs echo and branches quake at the roar of life.
"When gods become apathetic, the people will worship anyone who answers their pleas."
—Kiora



Her mind was quite gone, yet she spoke nothing but truth.





The pale deer are believed to have lived a thousand years, the pure white five hundred more. Those who seek them would gladly wander the wilds forever for the merest glimpse of these sacred beings.


"Let's show Vorinclex that progress doesn't always need teeth or claws."
—Malcator, Executor of Synthesis
No one in Aphetto answers a knock at the door after sundown.



Calling it a "petting zoo" really saved on the cages.

"The vampires of this world don't know the pleasures of hunger. They gorge themselves without savoring the kill."
—Sorin Markov
The elves had entered a land like an open grave-an act of fortitude or folly?


"Oketra had our crop build an obelisk to prove the power of working together. But I am stronger without the weak."

"Griffins do not serve. They give freely to those they trust."
—Amira, skycaptain of Thune
On Bant, a sigil is both a prize of honor and a bond of duty. The one who bears it may be called to fulfill that charge at any moment.
Webs of illusion unravel in the light of truth.
"Death not for survival but for vanity and pleasure? This is the decadence I sought to curb."
—Sorin Markov

With the Izzet occupied elsewhere, many of their public works fell into disrepair.
"The smell of roasted flesh hung over the valley for hours."
—Onean sergeant


". . . Cao's abdication changed the face of all; / No mighty battles marked the Southland's fall. . . ."

While other pirates prowl for treasure, Captain Parrish plunders secrets.

"We have a proud history of self-sacrifice. But it is easy, in these bleak times, to find one among us who is eager to die for any cause."
—Tavalus, acolyte of Korlis


The arrows of the elvish elite strike as true and deadly as the fangs of the Cosmos Serpent they revere.
"King Narfi calls. We go to war!"


"Cherish this world in honor of the martyrs who saved it. We too must be prepared to give our lives."
—*The Mending of Dominaria*
Kuldotha, wellspring of molten metal, temple of the goblin horde.

Silence rules Bala Ged, broken only by the skittering of Eldrazi.
Those who forget the horrors of the past are doomed to re-meet them.

All who hear his inspiring words are filled with hope and pride.

"Creation is a paradox. It hatches from its opposite."
—Olka, Mistmeadow witch



He'll point you to your death row seats.
At the academy, "show and tell" too often becomes "run and hide."



"Ideas drift like petals on the wind. I have only to lift my face to the breeze."

"This violent wasteland is an indictment of its people. These cowards lack the will to oppose disorder."
"My drivers are trustworthy. I removed their tongues myself. Any other questions?"
"Our glorious infection has taken hold."
—Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite
When it awoke, the worms of the earth hissed in a chorus of beckoning.



Good strategists seize opportunities. Great strategists make their own.
Everybody knows that to ward off trouble, you knock on wood. But usually it's better to make a wall out of the wood and let trouble do the knocking.

"The Sardian dwarves have let superstition override common sense. There's plenty of ore left in the mountain, and we mustn't let it go to waste."
—Last dispatch of Bolgon, Argivian surveyor
Eldrazi are not the leopard's preferred prey, but they are better than no prey at all.

Thanks to Havengul's thriving illegal market for corpses, the shovel that interred a body during the day is usually the same one digging it out at night.
"There are secrets out there begging to be rediscovered. We just need to look in the right places."
—Teferi, planeswalker


The essence of night to harden the soul.

"Nature is a wonderful engineer but works far too slowly for my tastes."





Muskets gave the Alaborn army an advantage it had long lacked—air defense.
"If I die, feed me to a shambler. At least that way I'll be doing some good."
—Ryza, Oran-Rief scout
"As long as there is a single shred of life, there is hope."
—Nissa Revane

Street corners in the Mezzio are a tantalizing bazaar of the fantastic, the illicit, and the fake.









"Hold the high ground, then bring it to your enemy"
—Surrak, khan of the Temur


Sometimes you have to search for inspiration, and sometimes it's right there in front of you.
Valuing scholarship above all else, the inhabitants of the Ivory Tower reward those who sacrifice power for knowledge.


"I have no need of a map. The very continent itself guides my way."
Rather than sheltering her young, the female Fungusaur often injures her own offspring, thereby ensuring their rapid growth.




When leonin settlers abandon their homes to the nim, items of value are often left behind.
At his side, humble beasts become weapons more deadly than sharpened steel.



Everyone wants to talk about the elephant in this room.

The most terrifying thing about the craw wurm is probably the horrible crashing sound it makes as it speeds through the forest. This noise is so loud it echoes through the trees and seems to come from all directions at once.
So great is his certainty that mere facts cannot shake it.
"A quick step beyond oblivion lies a place so full of thoughts that it leaves no room for your own."
—Quyzl, chronarch prodigy

All suns must set.

"Even a nuisance such as the pistus fly has a purpose in our new world."
—Glissa
"Impossible! How could they overwhelm us? We had barricades, war elephants, . . . and they were barely a tenth of our number!"
—General Avitora
"Catch!"
Kithkin healers chant the clan songs of both their parents over the broth to double its curative effect.
A few aetherborn have discovered a way to sustain their own existences at the cost of an insatiable hunger for the life essence of other beings.



"Thirsty?"
—Drunvalus, hydromancer




She watches over the city just as Serra watches over all.
"As swift as a lash mamba, as sharp as a spineleaf, a stubborn as a wild grox."
—Colonel Pannet, in praise of the Catachan warrior




"Let the Imperials search our laboratories. Will they think to look for secrets in a pretty bauble?"
—Emire, director of the Saiba Futurists


"Don't be rude, Beleren. We just want to enjoy the view with you."




Priests of Bant protect their temples with traps more elaborate than any mosaic floor.
Forged out of flowstone for the queen of Vesuva.
Some will sacrifice everything for but a taste of power.







"Even the leaves oppose your being here. What hope have you against nature's might?"
In a culture of beauty, the most beautiful are worshipped as gods.
"There's no better place to divine the future than at a nexus of branching presents."

Mutual consent is not required for war.

Bred in the vicious Mephidross, dross hoppers learned to eat quickly and escape faster.
Unlike previous conflicts, the war between Urza and Mishra made Dominia itself a casualty of war.


She speaks only in vile epithets, spitting out curses and obscenities that harm others just by the hearing.

"To my sword I owe my glory, but to my shield I owe my life."
—Sarlena, paladin of the Northern Verge
Energy surges in Izzet labs are opportunities for experimentation.
A doom denied—or, perhaps, delayed.


For the Simic Combine, its sigil serves not as an emblem of honor but as a trademark. Its familiar image on any biological commodity attests to superb craftsmanship, ingenious innovation, and higher cost.




Titania rewards all who honor the forest by making them a living part of it.
They fell screaming into the depths of the chasm like so many pebbles tossed down a well.
Rhox monks are dedicated to spiritual growth and learning, and most bear the sigils of many students. However, they do not gladly suffer fools or those who disagree with their carefully wrought dogma.

"Soraya speaks with the hunters of the air, as do all of her family line."
—Autumn Willow
"My whims dictate the fate of nations. Your pitiful mortal magic is no more significant than a gnat buzzing in my ear."



"It's rarely worth questioning where the mana comes from. Just be grateful."
—Jaya Ballard, task mage
"The Boros Legion always stands for justice, but it never stands alone."

Creators live for that moment of inspiration: precious, profound, perfect.
His sword sounded like a silver chime on the glass jar, and the sprite laughed with delight.
Dwarves have an instinct for repair, an inherent understanding of how systems work, and a reputation for fearlessness. They're perfect candidates for the Fair's emergency response team.

Outside, it reflects the suns' light. Inside, it harvests the suns' power.
The most terrifying thing about the craw wurm is probably the horrible crashing sound it makes as it speeds through the forest. This noise is so loud it echoes through the trees and seems to come from all directions at once.

Bear the weight of so many spirits and you'll surrender civility and restraint to savagery and instinct.

"Nothing is truly your own. It is his, whether you know it or not."
—*The Seer's Parables*



"Jewels cannot be eaten nor gold drunk. What civilization trades, nature simply provides."
—Molimo, maro-sorcerer



A typical day for a giant. A momentous event for a goat.
"Yawgmoth's corpse is a wound in the universe. His foul blood seeps out, infecting the land with his final curse."
—Lord Windgrace

"As long as I stand, so will your cause."
"Guilds be damned. We can fend for ourselves."
—Vennick of the Gateless

From the remnants of the dead, Geth forged a swarm to safeguard his throne.
"Close your ears to the voice of greed, and you can turn a gift for one into a gift for many."
Some sky steeds break from the thundering herd to ride free on the open winds.
Why does a Samite heal? You might as well ask why a bird flies.


Beyond pain, beyond obsession and wild despair, there lies a place of twisted power only the most tormented souls can reach.
Heads and shoulders above the rest.
The shaman rattles not to inspire a battle fury but to drown out the shrieks of those fleeing the Eldrazi.






"Grease up a firecannon good and proper with dinosaur-liver oil, and it'll shoot just about anything."
"The Ancestor saved us for a purpose."
"Why learn hundreds of spells when you can learn only one and use it to steal hundreds?"
Infinite possibilities contained in a finite space.


"It contains the wisdom of generations of our people. We permit only a chosen few to don the raiment."
—Imran, Viridian elder
"The future is a snake, devouring your life backwards through time. And when you die, believe me, it doesn't stop feeding."
—Sedris, the Traitor King
Every tear shed is a drop of immortality.
No welcome for those who trespass. Only fang and horn and claw.


If you're looking for it, it's available. The question is how much you're willing to pay.

"Frozen, we watched the funnel pluck up three of the goats—pook! pook! pook!—before we ran for the wadi."
—*Travelogue of Najat*
The touch of death is never gentle.

At the mouth of the sewer pipe, you realize it's massive enough that even a giant could walk through without stooping. That gives you an idea . . .



Spans of spines leapt from one sliver to the next, forming a deadly hedge around the *Weatherlight*.

Kapsho merfolk have infiltrated fortresses as remote as the desert citadel in Sunari in their relentless quest for arcane knowledge.

The legacy of evil lives on.






"It takes more than swift feet and dark shadows to slip by me unnoticed."
"There is no sweeter music than the wails of a dying dragon."
—Rashida Scalebane










Its scales contain the essence of thousands of lotus blooms.
"Choose your next words carefully. They will be your last."
—Phage the Untouchable


You won't know what you're missing.



The best techniques outlive their creators.
Mold crept over the walls and into every crevice until the gleaming white stone strained and burst.
"You have the right to remain silent. Mostly because I tire of your excuses."


One bone broken for every twig snapped underfoot.
—Llanowar penalty for trespassing
His name means "he who paints the earth red."
"If you fear poisons, it is because you are ignorant of them."
—Hapatra, vizier of poisons
Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.



Not all beautiful things are fragile.
The emotional echoes of dryad gatherings attract lost souls.

"We follow it through its tunnels, and where it dies, we farm."
—Mihas, spore druid
Seagrafs yield an abundance of resources for stitchers and ghoulcallers alike.



Passage to the abyss is free, but the return trip will cost you.


"If I were you, I'd check that elf's coat. I saw him slipping something into his pocket just before you arrived."
—Krandal, freelance instigator




Drink deep, and know the path to the heart of the wilds.
Evil often dines alone.
Poachers use the harvested tongues to snare pests, plumb caves, and scale tall buildings.


It is a monument as austere, unyielding, and inscrutable as Esper itself.
"You're in luck. I brought enough to share."
—Chandra Nalaar
"Removing the encumbrance of useless brain tissue grants several advantages: a slight increase in mobility, a response of revulsion and horror from the enemy, and, in the case of large specimens, room for passengers."
—Zul Ashur, lich lord


"Those talons really dig into your skin, but it's better than being dropped."
—Rafiq of the Many


"The lotus takes root where body and mind intersect. It blooms when body and mind become one."

Built with neither a way to steer nor a way to stop, the juggernauts were simply aimed at an enemy's best defenses and told to charge.


"Like the mighty armasaur, we will defend against all who invade our shores."
—Itzama the Crested
It bends not light but mana, aligning its chaotic currents into the sharp angles necessary for the mystic's purposes.
Her poppets bring joy to the truly depraved.

Mardu archers are trained in Dakla, the way of the bow. They never miss their target, no matter how small, how fast, or how far away.
Law protects but also contains.
"You know I accept only one currency here, and yet you have sought me out. Why now do you hesitate?"
—Xathrid demon

"The tools of the past will help us forge the future."

"Come on, you twisted things! Don't you want to get acquainted?"

Its curve mimics the twists of life and death.
Snaking remnants of nature directed by a body of thought and progress, the oracles embody all that is Simic.
Bogles are very tasty if you can get the skin off. It's getting a blade on them that's the problem.

"Where the roots reach, there the temple rises."
—Niszka, Selesnya evangel

"One day the mountain's fire will rise up to burn away our chains and end this age of oppression."
—*The Molten Prophecy*


Some Gruul druids believe that boars are spawn of the great Ilharg, the mighty Raze-Boar who will one day rise and level the city.


"Take my blood if you want. Just don't take my gold!"

"The Skyclaves are our inheritance."
"I don't study it because I want answers; I study it because there is beauty in pursuing the unknown."
—Masvaad, Candlekeep librarian




"A good lagac will carry you through thick and thin. A bad one . . . well, it's a tasty dinner."
—Raff Slugeater, goblin shortcutter
"Some may question your right to destroy ten billion people. Those who understand know that you have no right to let them live."
—Exterminatus Extremis


If the eyes are windows to the soul, their souls are not of this world.
"Another day. Another avenging angel. Another clump of feathers to toss in the trash."
—Liliana Vess
"I am not Raksha. I never will be. But I refuse to be the kha who watched her pride be torn asunder."
Acting on one good idea is better than hoarding all the world's knowledge.
"Release chaos with me!"

"We've been practicing for this all our lives. This is the final test!"
—Korun Nar, Rubblebelt hunter
Made of bone and boiled in blood, a Rakdos signet is not considered finished until it has been used as a murder weapon.
"While we delay, they're on the move. They will not wait as we bicker. We are losing this war by moments as our goal slips beyond our reach."
—Gideon Jura
It doesn't matter if the mind or body cracks first. They both have to go.
"Misery. Inadequacy. Failure. The common denominator is you."
The sea has many secrets, but some are too big to be kept.
To save this plane, he must forsake all others.




To become king of the Goblins, one must assassinate the previous king. Thus, only the most foolish seek positions of leadership.
"Some believe sandstalkers to be illusions; those with scars know better."
—*Zhalfirin Guide to the Desert*
"Why wander in search of a new home when the path is laid out before you?"
—Pytamun, former Nef-crop initiate


Without Locthwain's persistence, the realm would stagnate and die.
"They're easy enough to find. Question is, are you sure you want to find one?"
—Juruk, Kalonian tracker
The mountain's voice shouts us all down.
It's not always gold the thief is after.

As the ship approached, the jade totem rose high overhead. Power rippled. Eyes of stone glowed and crackled. Out hissed a breath of the world, and a windstorm came alive.
They exist to cease.

"Rent a scooter and be just like Devil K. Nevil! Just don't go faster than the speed limit. Or jump over anything. Or catch on fire. Or break every bone in your body multiple times. Other than that, just like him!"
Countless knights of Garenbrig owe their lives to his peerless craftsmanship.
"I would say that our bureaucrats are no better than vipers—but I shouldn't insult the vipers."
—Murat, death speaker


Where Jin-Gitaxias's ingenuity meets Vorniclex's inhumanity.

"I felt as if I were moving in brackish water, as if I were drowning, even though I knew I stood on dry land."
—Dindun of Kulrath Mine


Servants at Vess Manor are chosen for their strong work ethic and respectful demeanor. Being alive is not required.
One thought opens a thousand eyes. One sun brings a thousand dawns.
—Lightbringer creed

Born with wings of light and a sword of faith, this heavenly incarnation embodies both fury and purity.
He's an oxymoron.


Though Shadowmoor's monster-haunted wilds beckon, she never leaves her post.




Hot wind whipped up as if the weather itself wanted to fight Phyrexians.


From the veins of a peasant to the sketchbook of a master.



"Even alone I outnumber you."

Nethya stiffened suddenly, head cocked as if straining to hear some distant sound, then fell lifeless to the ground.
Without Locthwain's persistence, the realm would stagnate and die.

"Three daggers left in an angel's back, three enforcers with memory loss, three keys stolen from my own belt—and you talk of peace?"
—Tajic, to Aurelia
"Industry without artistry is just a fancy way to fill the junkyard."





Her blades slashed across the noble's shadow. He scoffed, then fell over dead.
The thunder of its hooves beats dreams into despair.




In a rare display of ingenuity, the Orcs invented an incredibly destructive weapon. Most Orcish artillerists are those who dared criticize its effectiveness.

Occupancy of the den changes from night to night as boggart gangs fight for control of a place they aren't willing to simply eat.





"As peace should be—gentle yet unstoppable."
—Augustin IV
The longer it soars above the shimmering swirls of the Quicksilver Sea, the more it adopts their unpredictability.







Its root system spans the entire floor of the jungle, making eradication impossible.


"You can't even fathom the depths of your own insignificance."
—Geyadrone Dihada


"The union of sea and sky makes a perfect cover."
—Talrand, sky summoner




"See your enemies from a thousand sides. Then you will find a thousand ways to kill them."

"Argoth's doom rained from a clear sky. Yavimaya will not share that fate."
—Multani, maro-sorcerer
A balm or a poison depending on how it is administered, and to whom.
Between stitchers, cultists, and scavengers, corpses are in high demand.
Mire slime courses through its veins in place of blood. No sooner does it bleed than it opens its mouth to replace the loss.
Like his mother before him, Darigaaz gave his life defending Dominaria from the tyranny of self-styled "gods."

Nylea's sacred lynx guards those who honor the Nessian Wood and hunts those who don't.


Once they reached Orazca, the Legion's explorers ransacked tombs and temples, hunting for the Immortal Sun.

The boots demonstrated many strange magical properties, but the most remarkable was their ability to withstand Westley's ferocious chewing.
"The Roil is destructive, but not random. It's Zendikar's way of revealing secrets."
—Ilori, merfolk falconer
"No emergency is so dire that it cannot be dealt with elegantly."
—Olivia Voldaren

Motivation was high in the academy once students realized flunking their exams could kill them.
Knowledge brings the sting of disillusionment, but the pain teaches perspective.
It was not the minotaur's shoulders but his soul that bore the heaviest weight.
Vengeance is a dish best served twice.
Just as the evil ones approached to slay Justina, she cast a great spell, imbuing her weapons with her own life force. Thus she fulfilled the prophecy: "In the death of your savior will you find salvation."
Heavy light flooded across the landscape, cloaking everything in deep crimson.


If you stop to listen, you can hear it grow.

For the Simic Combine, its sigil serves not as an emblem of honor but as a trademark. Its familiar image on any biological commodity attests to superb craftsmanship, ingenious innovation, and higher cost.






Alongside his wife, Hurkyl, Drafna built a legacy of scholarship that endured for millennia.
The juiciest prey is that which grows lazy, thinking itself beyond the reach of danger.
Other Phyrexians have nightmares about the gargantua.
He lifts the spirits of his people so they may descend in wrath upon their foes.
"I have seen things that would reduce a weaker person to blubbering and raving. Want to hear about them?"
—Vraska


When wielded by a true believer, it matters little whether the sword is a relic or a replica.
"The ancient places of Ravnica awaken, stirred by the hoofbeats of Ilharg!"
—Nikya of the Old Ways

"The Sultai came hunting for a bear hide. Now I have a belt of naga skin, and my friend has a full belly."
"After General Takeno found the Oathkeeper amidst the bamboo marshes, more scavengers braved the swamp's nezumi, oni, and kami in hopes of glory."
—*The History of Kamigawa*




Even among the hardiest warriors of the Temur, loxodons are respected for their adaptation to the mountain snows.
They walk the Path of Kensei with perfect balance.


Created to destroy Dominia, Demons can sometimes be bent to a more focused purpose.




Ever since the disaster, the city's survivors viewed the star-strewn sky with dread.



"It's a clever design. You should look closely at its gearing after it swallows your head."
—Jhoira, master artificer
While most power is used for ordinary, everyday tasks, one shouldn't underestimate its potential for the extraordinary.
Sacrificial rites take place before an audience of cheering cultists, each begging to be the next on stage.
"And the unclean spirits went out, and entered the swine: and the herd ran violently . . . ."
—Mark 5:13
Their flesh is as sodden as the fens in which they live, oozing to fill any wound and squishing to absorb any blow.





Not even the tallest tree stands a chance against the underside of a dinosaur's foot.
A mage willing to dedicate his life to his craft.

Its eye the glaring sun, its cry the keening wind.


"As you inject the *viscus vitae* into the brain stem, don't let the spastic moaning bother you. It will soon become music to your ears."
—Stitcher Geralf

"Urza fortified every thirty miles on the path to Tomakul, creating a network of trenches the brothers would trade for decades."
—*The Antiquities War*
To the Krark Clan, every artifact has a trigger and a barrel.




"This galaxy once knelt before us, and it will do so again."







Many fields now lie fallow in Gavony, as the oxen have been confiscated to perform other duties.
Neither subtle nor pretty.

Cantankerous and territorial, sandwurms claim even the skies above their dunes.
The best presents are impossible to regift.


With matchless stealth, the River Heralds fought a running battle against the three enemy forces.


The myr are like the Glimmervoid: blank canvases on which to build grand creations.


"If only we could so easily leave behind those parts of ourselves that pain us."
—Crovax
"This world tires of its long occupation."
—Nissa Revane


"Oi oi oi, me gotta hurt in 'ere, Oi oi oi, me smell a ting is near, Gonna bosh 'n gonna nosh 'n da hurt'll disappear."
—Troll chant
True power is achieved through blood and sweat. But mostly blood.
"The clamor of the city drowns all voices. But together we can sing a harmony that will resonate from Ravnica's tallest spires to her deepest wells."
"Then flashed the living lightning from her eyes,/ And screams of horror rend th' affrighted skies." —Alexander Pope, *The Rape of the Lock*
The continent of Ondu is a vast plateau crisscrossed by deep trenches and meandering rivers.






"Why, Gideon? Of all people, why save me?"


"Let them come. We will show them that Argivian steel is stronger than any Phyrexian metal."

"No half measures, no regrets. We'll tell no stories of this day. It will be as if it never existed at all."
—Ganedor, loxodon mystic

"Ever seen a changeling fly into a lantern?"
—Calydd, kithkin farmer


"My angel is the flint, and I am her steel."

"Except for a bare spot at the base of their skulls, Armor Thrulls bear interlocking plates and spikes with the strength of steel. Their design is almost artistic."
—Endrek Sahr, "Thrulls"

"The best foresight is hindsight."
—Empress Llawan


Vampires don't consider patience a virtue nor gluttony a sin.


Squee watched his Kyren cousins fall with a mixture of sympathy and relief.
"When you get right down to it, the difference between death and life is just a membrane-enclosed environment maintained by a metabolic process."
—Gulistan, Simic biomancer




Gale stared into the pool and saw a stranger. The similarities were uncanny, but it was not him.
Two creaking waterwheels herald the approach to Briarbridge through the Ulvenwald.

Each monitor is given an eye for each spire it is to guard.

"You have done your best. I give you leave to rest."

"Drana commands me. I command my nulls. And so her bidding is done."

"Like fruits in the field, we will be harvested when the season is right."

Nature grows solutions to its problems.
"She's quick and fearless, and she's never missed a shot. That almost makes up for all the scorch marks she leaves behind."
—Captain Lannery Storm
"Fire has always been my most faithful companion."
—Jared Carthalion

"Rent a scooter and be just like Devil K. Nevil! Just don't go faster than the speed limit. Or jump over anything. Or catch on fire. Or break every bone in your body multiple times. Other than that, just like him!"



Coming back from the dead, like most things, gets easier with practice.



Feroz is gone, but what remains is his final gift to his people: the right to be left alone.

"The gods of Theros are born of the expectations and beliefs of mortals. If I have found godhood, what does that say about their true desires?"
—Xenagos, god of revels







"I do love the rain . . . but this storm feels somehow wrong, Taysir."
—Daria



"There are many kinds of duty, and mine is to see our world grow and endure."

Forged for victory in a time of despair.

"The end of my cycle draws near. Rise up, young sprouts, and take root in my place."
He never wastes energy distinguishing between friend and foe.
"Now light our darkest hour."
—Rodimus Prime

Beauty appears in strange places for those with eyes to see it.


When tempers run high, it's easy to lose your head.
Paradoxically, to tilt the massive jug for a sip, you'd need the energy of the giant's tonic.
"The Warlord thinks we've gone soft, does he? The Fist of Progress will prove him wrong!"
Kavu hunt prey in packs—one kavu hunts a pack of prey.


"'Tis the set of sails, and not the gales,/ Which tells us the way to go." —Ella Wheeler Wilcox
Where treachery and oblivion converge.
"We entered the church in search of solace, but it became clear we wouldn't find it there."
—Grete, Order of Saint Traft

"We entered the church in search of solace, but it became clear we wouldn't find it there."
—Grete, Order of Saint Traft
He doesn't have to be smart—his masters only ever give him one command.
"He watches from above. He watches from below. He watches from within."
—Inscription on Tel-Jilad, the Tree of Tales
Xorns are native to the Elemental Plane of Earth, where gems and rare stones are plentiful. When summoned elsewhere they can be quite destructive in search of food.



The power of the Arcane too often finds itself in the hands of those foolish enough to think themselves its master.
"Into its maw went the seventh sea, never to be seen again while the world remains."
—Esper fable

At the battle of Guandu, Cao Cao defeated Yuan Shao by raiding his grain depot, leaving him with no way to feed his troops.
"Justice isn't done until undeath is undone."

Orcish lumberjacks spent the night sharpening their blades and resting for a day of labor. They awoke to find that the forest had been making its own preparations.


Her roots connect her to the forest's wishes.

"From a tiny sprout, the greatest trees grow and flourish. May the seeds of your mind be equally fruitful."




When it awoke, it shattered the hillsides to make way for its passage.

Kill a gnarlid with your first blow, or it'll cheerfully show you how it's done.


"I got it! I got it! I—"



When it awoke, it shattered the hillsides to make way for its passage.
Summer sends its kiss with warmth and blooming life.
Though many think of Wolves as solitary predators, they are actually extremely social animals. During a hunt they often call to each other, which can be quite unsettling for their prey.
In time, all things turn to dust. Some things just take less time.




When Emeria's worshippers learned that she was no more than a twisted memory of Emrakul, they abandoned their temples to the god. The deserted shrines now serve as breeding grounds for the mantas.






"What are ramparts, what are steeples, what are our machines worth in the teeth of this ceaseless hunger?"
—Magos Varnak
Her enemy's strength is her own.
". . . And at his passing, the bodies of the world's great warriors shall rise from their graves and follow him to battle."
—The Anvilonian Grimoire
"They come to drink, to bathe, and—I believe—to play."
Though they often bore little greater charm than the demons they battled, exorcists were always welcome in Scarwood.




No one welcomes his visit, yet all must grant him tribute.
If you want to destroy something lifeless, make it live.
Can it be Lightning Bolt yet?

Tormented by her own existence, Karona turned her wrath on the world that had birthed her.


"Swallowing his eye, the valiant Xiahou Dun fought on; / But Cao Cao's vanguard, its commander wounded, could not hold out for long."


Xenagos reveled while Theros burned.




The pyromancer summoned up her mightiest onslaught of fire and rage. Jace feigned interest.
From every kill, a gruesome trophy.
In the purrennial garden, the catnip blooms furever.



In his hands, the wind can become a weapon or a means of escape.





"Our dear Madam Mina is once more our teacher. Her eyes have been where we were blinded. Now we are on the track once again, and this time we may succeed."
"You want to know your enemy? Look at your feet while you trample him."
—Tahngarth of the *Weatherlight*



Their arrows are tipped with basilisk eyes and fletched with cockatrice feathers.
"Four things that never meet do here unite
To shed my blood and to ravage my heart,
A radiant brow and tresses that beguile
And rosy cheeks and a glittering smile."
—The Arabian Nights, trans. Haddawy
Don't try to outrun one of Dominia's Grizzlies; it'll catch you, knock you down, and eat you. Of course, you could run up a tree. In that case you'll get a nice view before it knocks the tree down and eats you.
Mephidross filled with roars of fury and wails of despair as the leonin fought to keep their memories from being pulled into the mists.

"Find shelter where none but the angels can reach you."
—Kor saying
"Try, if you must."
"As the cavalry bore down, we faced them with swords drawn and pikes hidden in the grass at our feet. 'Don't lift your pikes 'til I give the word,' I said."
—Maeveen O'Donagh,
*Memoirs of a Soldier*




"Most people believe magic is only a trick. Why change their minds?"

He raged at the world, at his family, at his life. But mostly he just raged.

"Healing is more art than magic. Well, there is still quite a bit of magic."


An army of squirrels is still an army.


"You mortals turn to dust in the blink of an eye. I only expedite your fate."
"Your attack has been rendered harmless. It is, however, quite pretty."
—Saprazzan vizier
Ogres are driven by passion, rage, and another ogre standing behind them with a whip.
The God-Pharaoh's most devoted took it upon themselves to follow his example.


"It's a perfect partnership. My village is safe from wolf attacks, and she gets to eat any vampires we catch."

"I was wrong. Zendikar isn't after me. It isn't after any of us. It's not evil or vengeful. It's magnificent . . . but it's in pain."
—Nissa Revane


"Whether frozen or fertile, the land is our ally. It awaits the call to battle."


"None can own the land's bounty. The gods made this world for all to share its riches. And I'm not just saying that because you caught me stealing your fruit."
Artifact construction required immense resources.
"Let this serve as a reminder of your failure."
—Exdratha, bog witch

"You are beneath contempt. Your lineage will be forgotten."




"I do not like it," said Grizzlegom, "but I will take every soldier I can get."

"Hey Glaxxar, did you remember to seal the vents on the seat belt control module?"
—Truss, chief engineer

"The tiniest mouse speaks louder to me than all the festival crowds on Tin Street."
Can you do the can-can-can-can?

"Silumgar's mind is a dark labyrinth, full of grim secrets and subtle traps."
—Siara, the Dragon's Mouth
Deep within the Cabal's vault, the Mirari pulsed like a dead sun—and its darkness radiated across Otaria.


It's not far into the trap, as the crow flies.


A sphere pushes equally in all directions.
The Isle of Wak-Wak, home to a tribe of winged folk, is named for a peculiar fruit that grows there. The fruit looks like a woman's head, and when ripe speaks the word "Wak."
You will scream out your innermost secrets just to make it stop.
"When I grafted the Planar Bridge into myself, I felt my Planeswalker spark flare beyond my body. The Multiverse was my plaything. It felt . . . incredible."
—Tezzeret
When its power is threatened, the council speaks with a unified voice.
"I will go to any length to achieve my goal. Eternal life is worth any sacrifice."
—Zur the Enchanter
Urza saw the wall and realized that even if he tore every Phyrexian to pieces, they would still resist him.
"A blast, an echo . . . then silence."
Infantry deployment is the art of putting your troops in the wrong place at the right time.
It pays to be at home both on the sea *and* in the sky.


Zndrsplt retired from officiating when she teamed up with Okaun, but she still knows the penalties better than anyone else.

"You know you've angered the gods when the clouds turn against you."
—Sisay, Captain of the *Weatherlight*
"It's not Talruum crystal, but I must admit—it gets the job done."
—Tahngarth

The scrape of shovels and the tumble of cold dirt soon muffled their pleas.



The results of Rashmi's experimentation forced her to consider the possibility that multitudinous realities existed beyond her own.
For hours afterward, all they could see was the grisly silhouette of their master, screaming.



Raissa transformed herself into a vessel for the Watchword Codex, allowing the arcane lore to flow through her body.

"This place has outlived its usefulness."
—Nicol Bolas

"You hit like a kobold!"


"They search for treasures that wash up from the depths. Tracking one could lead you to riches. Or in circles."
—Javad Nasrin, Ondu relic hunter

The most terrifying thing about the Craw Wurm is probably the horrible crashing sound it makes as it speeds through the forest. This noise is so loud it echoes through the trees and seems to come from all directions at once.
"I fear no army or beast, but only the morning fog. Our assault can survive everything else."
—Lord Hilneth
"The night emboldens many monsters, but the mightiest will attack in broad daylight."
Bred for battle in the Grand Coliseum, these wurms annihilated whole ecosystems when released into the wild.


"I have seen life's purpose, and now it is my own."
—Kamahl, druid acolyte
The songs of angels are perceived not as words in the ears but as stirrings in the soul.





"I wrecked your metal guy, boss. But look! I made you an ashtray."
"You might have pleaded your case with my queen earlier. Now I am here, and it is far too late."







Phyrexia extended its command until there was nothing left to take.

"I've got this under control! Probably!"


Occasionally a member of the Institute of Arcane Study acquires a taste for worldly pleasures. Seldom do they have trouble finding employment.


Planeswalkers seek out great monuments throughout the Multiverse, knowing that their builders were unknowingly drawn by the convergence of mana in the area.
The scullers beneath Esper keep strixes as trained pets, and set them loose when a fare refuses to pay.


"I welcome it. The pasture is cleared of weeds and the wolves are frozen solid."
—Lumi, goatherd


"Take a moment. Ponder the depths of your insignificance."


It's the favored mount of military commanders as well as anyone with a flair for the dramatic.


"They no longer care about their own suffering. Show them something worse."
—Latulla, Keldon overseer
"We share a common enemy. Does that not make us friends?"
"Roil tide! Roil tide! Tie yourselves down!"


A paladin's steed is a celestial spirit in animal form.


One croaked sermon spreads propaganda and plague.


That the Tolarian mists parted for the drakes was warning enough to stay away.
They are the reflection of Rushwood's glow on the edge of a wooden sword.

As Serra was to learn, the peace and sanctity of her realm were as fragile as glass.
Made of bone and boiled in blood, a Rakdos signet is not considered finished until it has been used as a murder weapon.


There is no place in Ravnica for stagnation, no room for lands unfilled and untilled.
Takenuma was filled with a chorus of moans, shrieks, and wails. Some came from the living, some from the dying, and some, most horribly, from the dead.
"The meek shall fight as one, and they shall overcome even the greatest of foes."
—Halvor Arensson, Kjeldoran Priest
One mogg to aim the catapult, one mogg to steer the rock.


"I don't like to think of myself as a pirate. I'm more like a stimulator of the local economy."




"You can build a perfect machine out of imperfect parts."
—Urza

"I bring a wilderness no law can tame."
"Beasts kill for their very survival. If you would have their strength, you must know their desperation."
—Konnos, Sylvok sage
"If it has a brain, even a primitive one, we can most surely scramble it."
—Garild, merfolk mage
Sins that would be too gruesome in the light of day are made more pleasing in the dark of night.
Those who worship the great gargantuans could hardly be expected to fight with a subtle weapon.


The fatal flaw in every plan is the assumption that you know more than your enemy.


"Your life serves a higher purpose now: ensuring the continuation of my own."


The model incorporated the fifth sun effortlessly, as if it had always known.
"As long as we have walked this world, we have known it as a harsh and unforgiving place."
—*The Invokers' Tales*




The only sound was the gentle clicking of the Faeries' wings. Then those intruders who were still standing turned and fled. One thing was certain: they didn't think the Scryb were very funny anymore.




The symbol of the Conclave is one of unity, with tree supporting sun and sun feeding tree.

Ancient evils dwell within the burning chasm called the Ashmouth, ever ready to devour those foolish enough to travel alone.



It serves a justice higher than the whims of the gods.

When the winds blow out of the abyss, death is the only harvest.

The imp, unaware of its own odor, paused to catch its breath . . . and promptly died.

An emblem of a secret guild, the Dimir insignia is seen only by its own members—and the doomed.
"Hold the line, for family and the fallen!"

"The guard will forever stand ready. For them, death is merely an inconvenience, not an ending."
—Chaeska, Keeper of Tresserhorn
"No sight is more beautiful than a clear sky."
The girl who would become the Champion of the Sun hacked furiously at the practice dummy. At last she stopped, breathing heavily, and looked up at her instructor. "So much anger," said the centaur. "I will teach you the ways of war, child. But first you must make peace with yourself."
—*The Theriad*


"For every scar I've received, I've given ten back."
"May you and all your kin waste and wither until your clan is no more!"


Meddling mages chant so loudly that no one can get a spell in edgewise.

Tawnos won fame as Urza's greatest assistant. After he created these warriors, Urza ended his apprenticeship, promoting him directly to the rank of master.
Time is the one shackle you can't break.
—Zhalfirin aphorism

"One little word was all it took. The world shook as I said it. The doom of Zendikar was here at last."
—Ob Nixilis

He cares not for the disasters his storm brings as long as his path ahead is clear.
It's adaptively deaf to its own cries.

"Gambling with mages never is."
—Remin, venerable monk
"Your mind was a curious mix of madness and genius. I just took away the genius."
—Jace Beleren
Ogres learn how to smash stuff even before they learn how to walk.

The Jhessian navy makes successful raids on Valeron's coastal towns thanks to their spies planted during peacetime.


An inspiring and glorious ascent.

The undisputed master of the mountains of Shiv.
In the Cateran guild, being caught is a capital offense.
"Whether we like it or not, our arrival has altered the landscape."
—Malcolm, navigator of the *Belligerent*
"Do as I think, not as I do."
—Jace Beleren
"Great losses often bring only a numb shock. To truly plunge a victim into misery, you must overwhelm him with many small sufferings."
—Ratadrabik of Urborg
Angels cannot ignore pious pleas.
"I can think of no greater punishment than answering your question in full."
—Lazav



If you want to wreak havoc above, sometimes it's best to look below.




"There are terrors lurking in the unseen corners of us all."
—Crovax

"It's only frightened five people to death. Not my best work."
—Braids, dementia summoner

A serpent's cruelty, a dragon's appetite.
". . . we demand a repeal of those ridiculous sumptuary laws. Additionally . . ."
The stones, like their holders, were drawn to each other. United, their true power awoke.

To the sorrow of all, its rage became focused on those who once stoked it.

"Keep one eye on the cliff road or you may fall to your death. Keep one eye on the sky or your death may fall on you."
—Manfried Ulmach, Elgaud Master-at-Arms
"Respect the earth, for it will one day be your shield and another day your blanket."
—Liefellen, Quirion exarch

After seeing his life's work drip away, the mage decided it was a good time to go crazy.


"The land grows only where the kami will it."
—Dosan the Falling Leaf
"The crossing demands singular focus. Your life consists of these ropes, these hooks, and these rocky crags. Your past is miles below."
A flame as bright and merciless as the sun.
Despite their stake in the city's survival, Rakdos cultists are loath to pass up any opportunity to sow chaos.
It eats and eats until the juiciest morsel it can find is itself.
What is the sound of one head snapping?



"We're making progress, but its desire to explore still far exceeds its ability."
—Amadi, Halimar griffin-master



"My destiny is to save others so their destinies may be achieved."
Weather is more predictable than the Izzet.
"I carry the light of truth. Do not pity those it blinds, for they never had eyes to see."
From the seeds of faith, great forests grow.
"There are two ways for me to pass this gate. One involves you remaining conscious."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*



Blood is thicker than mortar.
"I don't care if it's an all-powerful relic or a street vendor's lucky charm. If it brings you courage, wear it."
—Saheeli Rai
"My Soldiers know that they need never fear for their protection."
—King Darien of Kjeldor



Their fires burn quietly, allowing the phoenixes to glide silently through the canyon.
"Burn. Burn. Keep. Burn".



The location of S.N.E.A.K. HQ is a closely guarded secret.
"Aether is the soul of Kaladesh, and all souls should be free."
"No half measures, no regrets. We'll tell no stories of this day. It will be as if it never existed at all."
—Ganedor, loxodon mystic
"Oooooh!"
—The crowd
"Aaaaaaaaah!"
—Also the crowd
If you have to be stuck somewhere for a while, it's better to be stuck there with a friend.
"There's no heron in the moon! It's a shrew, a five-legged shrew, with a voice like whispering thunder!"
Whether mechanical or biological, life finds a way to propagate itself.
Even baloths fear its feeding time.
The fear in their victims' eyes is their most cherished reward.
When your enemies are denied soldiers, they are denied victory.



"We thank the souleaters for culling our sick so that the strong may earn their triumphs."
—Drones' hymn of gratitude

"The worthy shall strive for greatness. Supremacy in life leads to supremacy in the afterlife."
—Monument inscription

Zur remained aloof from Terisiare's suffering, intent only on his own perfection.

Vampires invited to a soiree at Markov Manor are expected to bring a guest or refreshments—or both.

"This should halt the spread of your insolence."



The first searchlights were given as gifts, symbols of cooperation, to the emissaries present at the signing of the Guildpact.

"I do not fear death. I know my soul will rise to Starnheim, where I will feast forever among valkyries and heroes. Can you say the same?"
Khorne's sole desire is to drown the galaxy in a tide of slaughter. To conquer and kill every living thing, until there is nothing left but spilled blood and shattered bone.





Haszoret's disappointment at initiates who fail their final trials can manifest in terrible ways.
Mklthd had always hated crowds . . . and they had always hated him.

His prowess gives the guildless hope that they can hold out against tyranny.



A lonely sentinel facing gales, hurricanes, and tides of homicidal spirits.
"The structure gets bigger every hour, with hedrons coalescing even deep under the surface. If I could only get inside . . . ."
"Channel your vitality through me."
Merrow schools rarely form by design. They come together naturally as eager learners surround the wisest teachers.
A masterwork of spite, inspired by madness.

Some of the nature spirits and wraiths that haunt Urborg take offense at the term "ghost town."



"Life is a circle. Death is a vicious circle."



Gideon eyed the Dimir emissary warily. "Could your agents slip inside Bolas's citadel?" The figure met his gaze with icy resolve. "We already have."

"Attention, valued patrons. The Tilt-o-Squirrel is now closed."
—Astrotorium public address system
"Now everyone knows what you are."


"Stray not into sin, lest you face the doorman of an insatiable tomb."
—Prayer of Asha
"Never forget our ancestors. They have not forgotten us."
—Mikaeus, the Lunarch
Some mages tapped into the time rifts, forcing upon others alternate timelines in which unimaginable horrors befall them.
Jolrael's choice of homes was far better than her choice of allies.
"The danger in cultivating massive plants caught the elves by surprise."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. III*

A symbol of _________ in _________ times.
"Goddess, grant us light to banish the world's shadows."
—Prayer to Kamsa
There are no weapons allowed in the Biblioplex, but a clever mage is never truly defenseless.


The shadow of the candle looms tall even as its light grows dim.
Sorin had created Avacyn, so it was a cruelty beyond imagining, a pain beyond description, that it fell upon him to end her forever.


Takenuma was filled with a chorus of moans, shrieks, and wails. Some came from the living, some from the dying, and some, most horribly, from the dead.
That which endures, survives.

"I've learned to trust my dogs' instincts. When they're calm, I'm calm. And when they get nervous, I get my crossbow."
—Hinrik of House Cecani



"Let this serve as a reminder of your failure."
—Exdratha, bog witch


To consult a sphinx is a test in patience. Perhaps that's the point.
Even the dead give way to the mineral gaze of the gorgon.

Its favorite treats are candied hands and sweet hearts.
Picking hammers is dangerous, but it's still safer than harvesting saw bushes.
"Though Innistrad is not cleansed of evil, we finally have cause to rejoice."

"Of course it will grow beyond control—it was designed to choose its own evolution."
—Momir Vig
"Part of me believes that Barrin taught me meditation simply to shut me up."
—Ertai, wizard adept

One who wears magical *boots of striding and springing* can jump astounding distances.



Where hope has no champion, evil rules all.
"Ready . . . uh . . . fire!"
The mind is perfectly capable of creating its own monsters.



"Ooh, nice shot! I almost felt that one."

Your past is a map to where you will go.
—Nantuko teaching
Whether trained, ridden, or eaten, few goblin military innovations have rivaled the bug.
"In the drowsy dark cave of the mind, dreams build their nest with fragments dropped from day's caravan."
—Rabindranath Tagore
It doesn't think. It doesn't feel. It doesn't laugh or cry. All it does from dusk till dawn Is make the soldiers die.
—Onean children's rhyme


Wisdom is a seed. Nurtured with patience and care, it will bear new fruit each season.

Some believe the spiky crystal called sangrite is concentrated dragon's breath. Others think it's crystallized life energy. The clans care only about the power it unleashes when crushed.
"Pain is temporary. So is life."
—Liliana Vess
"Yarok's nightmares lurk and wait
Where dark despair is near at hand."
—*Lament for Bala Ged*, stanza 3




"I'd stand back if I were you."
The spear thrown by Kytheon's own hand was the weapon that felled his friends.
Each fallen friend was a seed of regret, eager to blossom again in Gaea's name.

Only a matter as vital as destroying Volrath could bring together the reclusive Kor people.




The most nimble of creatures, it chases the most sacred luminence.
There is no glory to be gained in the kingdom of the dead.
—Vec tomb inscription

When all logical solutions fail, try an illogical one.

"When I'm done training you, anything will be a deadly weapon."








"It's too quiet tonight. Go make trouble."
—Ziatora

"Light up the dark to find your way, and the dark may seek you out."
—Zalin the Gutter Bard
The cruelest tortures leave no mark upon the flesh.
Nothing lives within it, yet there is life.

Power to dominate, cruelty to rule.
"Fire will cure a multitude of ills."


"It is not that you will go mad. It is that you will beg for madness."
—Volrath




"My rule persists beyond death itself."





All faeries delve for dreams. But not all wait for their victims to fall asleep.

"You might as well try to stop the waterfall."


A bored wizard once created a vizzerdrix out of a bunny and a piranha. He never made *that* mistake again.
"Infiltrate and infuriate!"
—Goblin Espionage League motto
An invasion weapon of ages past, the glistening oil contained the blueprints of countless atrocities.


If taken, it cuts the hand that clutches it. If given, it heals the hand that holds it.
"I've heard of putting the cat out, but this isn't what I had in mind."
—Nomad sentry
The cat warriors recognized this Jedit's face, but not his fierce loyalty to Efrava.

"The partisans have unearthed a strange artifact. None know its origin, but it gives them hope of a life beyond."
—Elspeth's journal
In the abstract memories of the Iquati, Jace found interesting ideas to improve upon.
"Our secrets lie in the desert beyond the Hekma. But finding them will not be your challenge; living with the knowledge will be."
—Samut, to Basri
"Wherever the Threefold Sun shines, great wings may go."
—Emperor Apatzec Intli III

It roamed the time bubble like a captured animal. Kerrick knew he must soon find a way to unleash it on Tolaria or destroy it.
A spike and a maul are needed to crack their shells, but the taste is worth the effort.



Each cryptolith twists the plane's mana, bending its flow to a singular purpose.
The grave robbers arrived the day after the burial. They were a day too late.

One day, they may be paragons of deadly elegance. For the moment, they possess nothing but thirst.

"One more step and you're mine."



"They never found the body of young Josu, or that of his murderous sister."
—"The Fall of the House of Vess"
"Thank you. This blade becomes so hot in my hand, but your blood has quenched it."


The pits feed both its thirst for combat and its thirst for blood.
It lives mainly on fruit, leaves, and the occasional nose.

You expected to meet hostile drow in this ancient ruin . . . but they fled long ago. What darkness could have driven them out?
"I gazed once into that light. Now it burns in my mind, forever denying me rest."
—Riku of Two Reflections
It is the nature of the strong to survive.
"We fight with valor in our hearts and fire in our veins!"
Dragon birth lairs are littered with treasure to entice the young from their eggs.

Without a connection of mind and body, magic is just an idea stuck in the head, a word on the tip of a tongue.




"These nezumi, they disgust me. The things they will do for money no other thinking creature would consider. This, of course, makes them useful beyond words."
—Meloku the Clouded Mirror


"And topples round the dreary west A looming bastion fringed with fire." —Alfred, Lord Tennyson, "In Memoriam"



Benalia has no need for peacocks to serve as symbols of vanity. The Capashens strut more proudly than any bird.
"She will come back to me."

The Cho-Arrim fell from the sky onto Mercadia City like a vengeful rain.

Too flashy to ignore. Too fast to catch.


Beyond lies the culmination of all Izzet projects, a grand experiment led by the dragon Niv-Mizzet himself.

He raged at the world, at his family, at his life. But mostly he just raged.





She seeks the warmth of the living.
In a rare display of ingenuity, the Orcs invented an incredibly destructive weapon. Most Orcish artillerists are those who dared criticize its effectiveness.





"All we had left were their black and bloated bodies." —Maeveen O'Donagh, *Memoirs of a Soldier*

"I tell you, there was so many arrows flying about you couldn't hardly see the sun. So I says to young Angus, 'Well, at least now we're fighting in the shade!'"




"Fill the sky with stuff!"

The midway offers every flavor under the sun, even to guests who need to stay out of it.

The mournful lowing of brushstriders warns of changing weather and ill winds.

Good bodyguards are hard to find, mainly because they don't live long.
Myra doesn't believe in stopping rides for minor inconveniences like "they need to be repaired."
"I will uphold the law, and no manner of foe will stop me."
When the crimson fades from the magical embers, a final wisp of smoke will rise. Soon after, hostilities will begin anew.
A mark of unity when you want one; a fierce guardian when you need one.
The makers and menders are the first called to battle and the last to leave.


Hunger is like the sea: deep, endless, and unforgiving.
The Saiba Futurists guard their secret experiments with ever-evolving networks of cutting-edge defensive technology.

The mirozels are the only stars in Rath's opaque skies.
"This will work," Gerrard called to the elves as he used the forge to strengthen the aboroth, "but if it doesn't, we won't survive to care."
"The universe is my instrument, and the song I play upon it is one you are forbidden to hear."



Urza's metathran children were conceived, birthed, and nurtured by an integrated system of machines.


Though it moves like a living thing, anyone can tell it lacks a soul—not to mention mercy.


"Be like the meerkat, my daughters: ever vigilant, true to your own, and wary of strangers."
—Nabil Alamat, Suq'Ata merchant


"Oi oi oi, me gotta hurt in 'ere, Oi oi oi, me smell a ting is near, Gonna bosh 'n gonna nosh 'n da hurt'll disappear."
—Troll chant
"A trail of scrap metal can lead it into an ambush. But take care not to overfeed it."
—Adaran, Tangle hunter
Deep beneath the ruined continent of Otaria, there's a mine where goblins still work, ignorant of the destruction above.
"I never thought I'd spend my life fighting. I'm a maker, not a destroyer."

Darkness doesn't always send its minions to do its dirty work.
The heart of a golem gives life to more than just the iron husk around it.
Soldiers who fought through Grixis learned to hit first, recite the prayer of Asha later.
Kozilek's brood infiltrates and deceives. The spawn of Ulamog mindlessly consume.
"The Hand of Justice will come to cleanse the world if we are true."
—Oliver Farrel

"Unlike Zhalfir, the griffin needs no council to keep harmony among its parts."
—Asmira, Holy Avenger


"Tideshaping is more than creating a few new puddles."

He seems absolutely imperturbable. I can fancy what a wonderful power he must have over his patients.
"My ship . . . ," Sisay mumbled. "Intact," Gerrard reassured her, "which is more than I can say for you, my friend." Sisay laughed despite the pain.


Her hunger will not be denied.
"We must all push through the pain to heal our world."
—Ayli, Kamsa cleric
Zombies mourn for the living and celebrate those who will soon be given the gift of death.
Legend has it that Serpents used to be bigger, but how could that be?

In nature, not a single bone or scrap of flesh goes to waste.




"My ancestor Toshiro used to say, 'Life is a series of choices between bad and worse.' I'm a master of making great bad choices."
The Mirari flares in his mind.








Ambition has a price in Baldur's Gate, and it is paid to the Council.

大きさは半分、悪事は二倍。
"Did you expect me to dodge? How quaint."
—Olka, mistmeadow witch
Purphoros once loved Nylea, the god of the hunt. His passion inspired his most astounding works of art.


"Peace will come, but whether born of harmony or entropy I cannot say."
—Oracle *en*-Vec


Ghirapur is a beacon of inspiration, attracting the most brilliant minds on Kaladesh.

Behind every great mogg bomber is another mogg with a shovel and a basket.



"Our arrows are aimed not at the sacred behemoths but at those who dare to dream of such a trophy."
"The wilds are a garden tended by divine hands."
Because fighting is easier than figuring out what else to do.


"I'm in the field of procurement, and business is good. The guilds want all kinds of maps and relics these days, though what they want them for I'm not quite sure."


With fewer patrols about, Kessig's roads have become prime hunting grounds.

Skirmishers engaged raiders before they could reach the towns. Although these units typically suffered huge losses, they never lacked volunteers.
"I heard their eerie howling, the wolves calling their kindred across the frozen plains."
—Onean scout
"Something down there has an appetite for what we're standing on. Let's hope it doesn't want seconds."
—Samila, Murasa Expeditionary House
It dodges waves of water to prepare for waves of magic.
His work determines who is remembered and who feeds the worms.
"The third wind of ascension is Eliminator, clearing Keld's path to victory."
—*Keld Triumphant*


The symbol of the Conclave is one of unity, with tree supporting sun and sun feeding tree.

"We should learn from the hydra. It never plays favorites; it devours everyone equally."
—Thrass, elder druid





When demons open a path to your front door, it's time to move.
"The meadow sprang up beneath me, and I perceived a path from our people's defeat to our highest glory."
As Hedrax stepped into oblivion, he welcomed the unwavering silence.
"Fear of fire is a sensible instinct. If I were you, I'd be terrified."
"Choices belong to those with the luxuries of time and distance. We have neither. I recommend we proceed with the plan to destroy all shrines of the kami."
—Lady Azami, letter to Sensei Hisoka
Sunhome—the stalwart shield, the towering sentinel, the seat of justice.
"I adore your outfit. It's so . . . rustic."
"Locks want to be opened, and treasure wants to be free."
—Nayrex Slipfinger, master thief
"If we're going to survive, we have to use every tool at our disposal. Especially the disgusting ones."
—Ryza, Oran-Rief scout
"What was yours is mine. Your land, your people, and now your life."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"Get ready, son."
Sun Empire commanders are well versed in advanced martial strategy. Still, the correct maneuver is usually to deploy the giant, implacable death lizard.


The pack that ambushes, eviscerates, and devours together stays together.

Every world is an organism, able to grow new lands. Some just do it faster than others.


"Fools dig for water, corpses, or gold. The earth's real treasure is far deeper."




The skyhunters were born when the first leonin gazed at the heavens and wished to hunt the birds overhead.

Sin is debt, and absolution is paid in tithes of gold and blood.
"Just the thing for those pesky water mages."
—Jaya Ballard, task mage
Close finishes are settled by who can dismount and get to weapons first.
Part of the acolytes' training is to walk along the Hekma, staring out at the ravenous horrors kept at bay by the God-Pharaoh's barrier.
"End this. What I seek is far greater."
—Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite
"When one wolf calls, others follow. Who wants to fight creatures that eat scorpions?" —Maimun al-Wyluli, *Diary*


None of the other villagers dare venture into the wilds, so she feeds the whole hamlet herself.

"Change your mind, or I'll change it for you."




"You were keen enough to sink your fangs into us, vampire! And now you're afraid of a few little nibbles?"
—Udvil "Ratty" Ratlock

Zendikar's elves have developed innovative methods to mitigate the effects of the Roil.
Even the wicked have nightmares.



"It moved this way, an' that way, an' then before I could stick it, it jumped over my head an' was gone."
—Jula, goblin raider
To gaze under its hood is to invite death.


Also called "pathway stones," hedron shards can immobilize Eldrazi on contact.

The uncorrupted rallied under Thalia's leadership and Sigarda's banner.
The necromancer's touch strips away memory and loyalty, and only strength and malice remain.
"...Is it over?"
When it awoke, it spawned nameless thousands to herald its arrival.

Samite healers never mix their pungent elixir with sweetener or tea. The threat of a second dose is enough to get most warriors back on their feet.
A dream of fire lies coiled inside, waiting for its glorious awakening.




Things born in magma are always angry.

After millennia asleep, the Eldrazi had forgotten about Zendikar's fiery temper and dislike of strangers.


"Nature's most raw beauty is the circle: perfect in its continuance, with no break between death and life."
The earth shook in support of their cause, offering a champion of its own.



Carnivorous dinosaurs developed a taste for undead flesh, tracking the vampires by the scent of blood on their breath.
Bitter as wormwood, sweet as mulled wine.


"If it didn't hurt, how would I know it worked?"
"Greetings, fellow inventors!" the akki shouted, attempting a friendly smile. To her dismay, the greeting was met only with shrieks and alarms being activated.
"If left in the enemy's shape too long, it might be lost to them."
—Vy Covalt, Neurok agent

Considering the zealous armies, vile poachers, and titanic monsters, it's always wise to keep one eye on the horizon.



"When the land is angry, so are they."
—Nissa Revane

By guild tradition, any puddle of multicolored light on the cobblestones can serve as neutral ground.
"When every reef is bared and every wave is dust—only then shall I rest."
"Words lie. People lie. The land tells the truth."
Not every job in the goblin army is glamorous. Actually, *no* job in the goblin army is glamorous.


"If you can't save yourself, you fight to give someone else a chance."
—Ajani Goldmane

"Peace? Its sole purpose is fear."
—Saheeli Rai


"Still alive? No matter. I'll leave you as a warning to others who would oppose me."
—Vish Kal, Blood Arbiter


The spirit cares nothing for the crimes or triumphs of the slain. It shelters all beneath its stormy cloak.




At Crossbreed Labs, "heads or tails" has nothing to do with coins.

"First through the Riftstone was Genesis—and the world was lifeless no more."
—Scroll of Beginnings
"The fleeting shadows of his primitive self have all but vanished."
—Jin-Gitaxias, Core Augur
"The Matrons are kindly souls, but don't ask one for an ale."
—Halina, Dwarven Trader
"Living side by side with the Elves for so long leaves me with no doubt that we serve the same goddess."
—Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order
"The question isn't whether I can read minds. It's whether I have yet to find a mind worth reading."
—Ambassador Laquatus





"Beneath her scars, Dominaria's beauty yet shines."
—Multani, maro-sorcerer


All who listen hear their own song, a unique melody played just for them.

If you can see your breath, it's too late to run.
The scent of rot and vinegar fills the marsh, inviting boggarts from every warren to reunite and feast.
Though its mind has long since rotted away, it wields a sword with deadly skill.


"Your defiance is amusing, little mage. It's time you learn how fragile you really are."
—Extus Narr


Kathari, the sickly aven of Grixis, have learned that the corpses by the shoreline are more trap than treat.

Its passage through history is marked by warped desires and insatiable greed.




"You made it asymmetrical just to annoy me, didn't you?"
—Imbraham, Quandrix dean
Even the brave have cause to tremble at the sight of Sivitri Scarzam. Who else has tamed Scarzam's Dragon?

The stronger the will, the more bewitching the song.
Most casualties of the power struggle between vedalken and Neurok didn't die on the field of battle; they merely disappeared.
"To the tutors, a 'poem of sand' was of little account, a 'poem of ivory,' priceless."
—Afari, *Tales*

The throng flitted from castle to castle, leaving a trail of star-crossed love, damaging rumors, and missing heirlooms in their wake.

"Those who know do not talk. Those who talk do not know."
—Lao Tzu, *Tao Te Ching*
(trans. Feng and English)
You don't have to outrun the werewolf; you only have to outrun your fellow guard.
"I will join you so that you will not yet join me."

"Life up here is simple. Adapt to the ways of the mountains and they will reward you. Fight them and they will end you."
—Kezim, prodigal pyromancer


Don't let him lead the soldiers, but by all means let him lead the way.

While it possesses potent venom, the Giant Spider often chooses not to paralyze its victims. Perhaps the creature enjoys the gentle rocking motion caused by its captives' struggles to escape its web.

Mastodons became extinct long ago, but foul forces of the Gurmag Swamp sometimes animate their decaying remains. The Sultai happily exploit such creatures but consider them inferior to their own necromantic creations.
"When the fifth sun rose, Mirrodin saw its first true dawn."
—Inscribed on the skin of Thrun, the last troll



"One timely cry of warning can save nine of surprise."
—Sidar Jabari

Having flesh is increasingly a liability on Mirrodin.


"None can own the land's bounty. The gods made this world for all to share its riches. And I'm not just saying that because you caught me stealing your fruit."
With Thraben's army recalled to its city walls, outlying villages were left to fend for themselves.
In the dark, it's nearly invisible—until it exhales.
"All the wizardry in the world has to pass through one small and easily sealed door."
—Ajani Goldmane

Those who dare stand in its path are either brave or mindless. Or in the case of goblins, both.

"If I'm going, I'm taking you with me!"

After the battle, an eerie silence gripped the forest. The losers' remains were lightly dusted with green.



"When the last dragon fell, its spirit escaped as a roar into the wind."
—Temur tale

2018 North America Legacy Championship
Deep within the Cabal's vault, the Mirari pulsed like a dead sun—and its darkness radiated across Otaria.



As eons passed, the rock wore away, revealing the rich colors at the mountain's heart.


"Lately I've seen the biggest bounties of my career—and for the biggest names."


Insidious fear can be the undoing of the greatest of armies.


"Aku, City of Hidden Graves / Aku, City of Lost Kings / Aku, welcome me."
—Pillar tomb inscription


"To examine the causes of life, we must first have recourse to death."
—Mary Shelley, *Frankenstein*


"Ever proud, ever vigilant."
—Grenadier motto
Inspiration comes in all shapes and sizes.
"Hard to imagine," mused Hanna, stroking the petal, "such a lovely flower inspiring such greed."
"I don't know which is worse, getting hit with those darts or having to watch them grow back."
—Orcish Soldier











Both forge and pyre.
A warning shout would take too long.

"Those who claim to know the world in its entirety rarely have the requisite perspective."
—Ulmarus the Wise
When angered or frightened, it protects itself with a burst of blinding light.


"Riftcutters are suicidal anarchists, waving those lightning axes around so much that the walls are as likely to fall as their foes."
—Heruj, Selesnya initiate

"Time may heal all wounds, but what heals time?"
—Teferi
"Why are we following the goblin? Can he even read that map?"
—Daphne Vail, *Diremore* first mate

"A mage must be precise as well as potent; cautious, as well as clever."
—Zur the Enchanter
Appointed by the kha himself, members of the tribunal ensure all disputes are settled with the utmost fairness.
"Guilty."
In the Kathari dumping grounds known as the Boneheaps, its not hard to improvise an offense.
Boggarts constantly strive to outdo each other with the things they bring back to the warren, each hoping the exploit will become as well-known as those of Auntie Grub.
They'll attack whatever's in front of them—as long as you tell them where that is.

As their roots soaked in a weak tea of bogwater and decay, the trees absorbed the essence of death into their living tissue.



Without vowels, no one can hear you scream.


"All memory of your existence will be wiped from reality. You will die, and no one will mourn."
—Memnarch



"Give me a sword and I'll kill a few enemies. But give me a hammer and a fiery forge, and I'll turn the tide of battle."


Knowing Takenuma Swamp to be dangerous, Hisata set wards to warn him of predators. He never imagined that his murderer would pass through them unhindered.
Disaster stalks with gaping jaws across unready lands.
The lives of elves are long, but their memories are longer. Even after death, they do not desert their homes.
His spark lost, he plots revenge upon the plane whose corrupting mana fractured his soul.


"Whoever thought of making mobile volcanoes was a genius."
—Chandra Nalaar
Nothing escapes its gaze—or its breath.




A scavenger's favorite appetizer is death.
These monkeys mean business.

Not all heroes die in armor.
"My mind has changed. My strength has not."



"Her voice is disaster, painful and final."
—Matoc, lavamancer
Just one moment more

The first line of defense against Urza and Mishra, the Artifact Blast achieved widespread fame until an unlucky mage discovered it was useless on the devices the brothers had already created.





"My 'condition' is a trial. The weak are consumed by it. The strong transcend it."
—Sorin Markov
It doesn't like having visitors . . . unless it's having them for lunch.
"If you look past the giant claws, nasty teeth, and horrible breath, they're actually kind of cute."
—Shanna Sisay




"The blazekite is a simple concept, really—just a vehicular application of dragscoop ionics and electropropulsion magnetronics."
—Juzba, Izzet tinker
"Don't look at it! Maybe it'll go away!"
—Ib Halfheart, Goblin Tactician
"Wood is wasted in the dirt."
—Orcish proverb

The more victims he kills, the more likely he is to get the right one.
Few understand the DCI's rigorous decision-making process.

"They won't be winning any beauty pageants, but they'll do the trick."
—Enslow, ghoulcaller of Nephalia
An empty canvas holds infinite possibilities.


"Leshrac, my liege, grant me the power I am due."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer

You've heard rumors of bandits along the Coast Way, but your journey so far has even surprisingly uneventful.
"It's a cold, dark journey either way."
—Eruth of Lambholt

"You've got your childhood wish at last. Now you get to die."
—Gerrard, to Volrath
The joy of rebirth overshadows the sadness of death.






After many years as a lullmage, Noyan Dar turned his talents from allaying Zendikar's fury to the considerably easier task of rousing it.

"Are they dead yet? No? Then my previous order stands."

Clutching the orb it found in the lake, the frog let out a croak of enlightenment.


In war, dragons don't see sides, just side dishes.
Fortunately, Hill Giants have large blind spots in which a human can easily hide. Unfortunately, these blind spots are beneath the bottoms of their feet.



"Commander, what's the signal to attack?"
"You'll know."

The strongest golems are forged from meteoric iron that has been tempered in the heat of an elemental plane.

We encountered a valley topped with immense boulders and eerie rock formations. Suddenly one of these boulders toppled from its perch and sprouted gargantuan wings, casting a shadow of darkness and sending us fleeing in terror.
"I refuse to die—not at the hands of one such as you."




Ral's storm crackled with mystical detections: Planeswalkers were infiltrating Ravnica.



Embermages aren't well known for their diplomatic skills.

"One day every pillar will be a tree and every hall a glade."
—Trostani



"All that concerns me is the vampires' sense of smell and those freezing Nephalian nights."
"Holy couriers guide aven spirits up to the home of the Ancestor."
—Mystic elder
"The explorer who found it got a bad deal when he sold it. He merely got rich."

Its hunger and ire are no less for being wrought of lies and mist.



The Forge embraces all who contribute to the Great Work.
While it's true that a quillspike does heal the sick, it's just because it finds them tastier that way.


Born with wings of light and a sword of faith, this heavenly incarnation embodies both fury and purity.
A grave is the safest place to store ill-gotten treasures.
So confusing is the Wall's appearance that few of its victims even see it move.





Fortunately, hill giants have large blind spots in which a human can easily hide. Unfortunately, these blind spots are beneath the bottoms of their feet.

Now that he knows a thousand ways of hurting people, his next shamanic quest is to discover a thousand more.






Born amid the molten metal of the Great Furnace, the slith have more than adapted to the perils of a metal world.

In his presence, an ordinary grove becomes a bastion to turn spells and break armies.

"When the earth shakes, and their animals are swallowed up by the ground, perhaps they will think twice before attacking again."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer



"The trick to talking sense into Keldons is getting them to hold still."


"Ice can be shaped to any form, even the whisper of a memory."
—Mytha, Temur shaman
"So they want to kill my men? Well two can play at that game."
—General Khurzog

"Borborygmos's elemental launched an assault, but the Izzet wards held and experiments continue."
—Skyknight report on the Rubblebelt

Junk heaps have rats, but scrapheaps have goblins.

"I can show you indulgence without regret, delight without boundaries, gratifications beyond count."
—Sha'ris, Deacon of Lust
"That arm's for bashin'. That one's for smashin'. That one's for scratchin'. And that one . . . I don't know what that one's for."
—Orgg trainer



"Good ideas don't take time. They take a lot of bad ideas first."
—Ral Zarek
"It is not a goal, but a process—the process of creating the perfect Phyrexia."




Tracing the horizon in a dance of wind and fire.
Merrows consider themselves the keepers of Lorwyn's past—and consider it their duty to edit when necessary.





"Enemies can be your weapons or your shields. Simply show them which they are."
—*The Teachings of Zho*



Sometimes the wise ones wove their magic into living plants; as the plant grew, so grew the magic.

The horses of Scytha's army must be well trained. A thrown rider would fall miles before meeting the ground.

The last thing anyone would describe you as is shy. You love the spotlight, and it loves you back.


It started as a mere drop of water. The Magic Mirror crystallized it into much more.

Enter those who are starving and sick. You are welcome among the Swarm when the rest of Ravnica rejects you.

"With this crown, assert your authority."
—Crown inscription
". . . and when the farmer awoke the next morning, all the seeds from his field were once again in their sacks."
—Afari, *Tales*

"As long as I stand, so will your cause."



The path of a goblin shaman is a journey through a thousand ways of hurting people.

Two's a party. Three's a felony.
"Kills and cooks your food in one easy stroke."


The air hummed with the scissoring sound of uncounted blades that hovered in front of the invaders as though wielded by a phalanx of unseen hands.



The calm comes after the storm.
"Let everything return to its true nature, so that destiny may takes its course."
"You helped save my people from a Phyrexian fate. Did you think I wouldn't return the favor?"
—Eladamri, to Gerrard

Come to these woods and suffer no pain; you've burdens to lose and new life to gain.

The rising oceans brought new lakes—and new terrors—to Terisiare. The Explorers found their ancient enemies spawning everywhere.
It's the pinnacle of utter destructiveness.
Odric took no joy in violence but neither did he mourn for the twisted things he dispatched. All that mattered were the lives he had saved.
"Tilonalli's searing rays carry the spark of life's eventual destruction as all light fades."
—Chitlati, Lightning Rider


"Optimists see the world as they wish it to be. Pessimists see the world as it is. Must these roles be mutually exclusive?"
—Evo Ragus
The farther he roamed from Jund and its dragons, the more he felt their essence in himself.

A symbol of hope for hopeless times.



"The explorer who found it got a bad deal when he sold it. He merely got rich."
"My commands shall echo forever in their dusty skulls."
"There are some secrets so dark no human mind should ever contain them. Interested?"
—Nefarox, Overlord of Grixis
Displays of Voldaren bloodlust are not restricted to glamorous banquets and lavish parties.
"They thought their fortress impregnable . . . until we marched up with ours, and blocked out the sun."
—Golran, dragonscale captain
"Lifted beyond herself, for that battle Brindri was an angel of light and fury."
—*Song of All*, canto 524


The foundries of Kaladesh run like clockwork under the supervision of their formidable overseers.
"It's no challenge to master a Mercadian."

This detailed model allows the edificers to examine the city from every angle.
"Terrifying, but thankfully temporary."
—Teferi
It would be ill-mannered to decline his invitation. It would be ill-advised to accept it.




With an explosion that shook the foundation of the city, the *Weatherlight* burst from the underground hangar.


It fears no sword and leaves no bones behind.


The viashino knew of the cracked pipes but deliberately left them unmended to bolster the rig's defenses.

When the rebels couldn't breach the castle to kill Lalor the Obstinate, they tried a more internal approach to depose the pretender king.
"To think that some find sleep a restful state."
—Volrath
"The first stage of the illness: rash and nausea."
—Phyrexian progress notes
Heart of fire, blood of lava, teeth of stone.

The Nightmare arises from its lair in the swamps. As the poisoned land spreads, so does the Nightmare's rage and terrifying strength.
The Cabal breeds many things for the pit fights, but it never breeds compassion.

"The past is buried for good reason."
"Death shall prevail as long as our will falls to rust. May necessity anneal our resolve."
—Ghalma the Shaper

Gold coin, battered helmet, broken wrist bone—all have the same value in the eyes of a harpy.
Only leonin clerics who can survive the Razor Fields for one turning of the suns can stand in the Cave of Light.

After the terrible retribution visited upon Lat-Nam, this school of mages chose to hide from the eyes of the world.

Earth arms itself with fire.
A deafening roar arose as the fury of an enormous vertical river supplanted our serenity. Eddies turned into whirling geysers, leveling everything in their path.


Dragonfire spawned many imitations. Some were more dramatic than others.
"Life as we know it dangles on the brink of extinction. We must show the strength they would steal from us."
—*The Invokers' Tales*

The sooner you see the whites of their eyes, the sooner you'll spill the red of their blood.



"A friend is someone you'd do anything for."






"As you inject the *viscus vitae* into the brain stem, don't let the spastic moaning bother you. It will soon become music to your ears."
—Stitcher Geralf



Greatness, at any cost.
Good bodyguards are hard to find, mainly because they don't live long.
"Krosa the great. Krosa the enduring. Look to the forest, and it will share its bounty."
—Zyd, Kamahlite druid


Without Ardenvale's loyalty, the realm would greedily devour itself.
Clients who cheat the sailmonger make an impact on the rest.

"When you are gone, will anyone remember your story?"
—Unknown


"The final stage of the illness: delirium, convulsions, and death."
—Phyrexian progress notes
"We are not here to mourn their loss. We are here to celebrate their lives."
—Vesna, Dawnhart witch
"It is the way of most wizards to begin by exiling themselves and to end by exiling everyone else."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator

Enter and comprehend the perfection of orchestrated life.

Fight with a friend at your back, steel in your hands, and magic in your veins.
—Quirion creed
"This is how wars are won—not with armies of soldiers but with a single knife blade, artfully placed."
—Yurin, royal assassin
Pure souls shine bright as daybreak.
Spans of spines leapt from one sliver to the next, forming a deadly hedge around the Weatherlight.

The trick to talking sense into Keldons is getting them to hold still.

"We must shake her limbs and rattle her brains."
—Grandmother Sengir
The Earth herself lends her strength to these walls of living stone, which possess the stability of ancient mountains. These mighty bulwarks thwart ground-based troops, providing welcome relief for weary warriors who defend the land.


Once guarded by the Knights of the Reliquary, the tower stands now protected only by its own remoteness, its dusty treasures open to plunder by anyone.



"The dragons thought they were too strong to be tamed, too large to fall. And where are they now?"
—Khibat the Revered
"This big metal guy will make some amazing wind chimes!"

Guttering cinders stoke their dying flames by snuffing out the lights of others.

"Rath grows, and I am nourished."
—Volrath
The crone's boughs creaked as she spoke. "You look peaked, little one. Come, sip from my warm brew. It'll have you blooming in no time."
Some druids nurture gardens. Others nurture continents.



"My battle cry reaches ears far keener than yours."
—Saidah, Joraga hunter
There is no boat big enough.

The land is ever resilient. Should it die, it will be reborn.


Elementals flourished as Dominaria healed and new forms of life adapted to the land's reinfusion with mana.
Storm crow descending, winter unending. Storm crow departing, summer is starting.



History has buried its treasures deep.

"A crafter must imbue her weapon with part of her soul—something the Phyrexians are incapable of doing."
—Melira
For the necromancer barons, killing and recruitment are one and the same.
Its blood is life. Its body is growth.
Never underestimate the power of the soul unleashed.


As their supplies of etherium dwindled, mechanists sent gargoyles farther and farther afield in search of salvage.
"The burst of strength brought on by this plague should not be mistaken for a sign of renewed health."
—Kolbjörn, High Honored Druid



"Do not speak the name of the sea, for if it should hear you and rise up, no fortress in the world could hide you."
—Gimara of Halimar
The Izzet mage knew she would neither get her thermoinverter back nor have the satisfaction of exploding it herself.
"A master of hieromancy can see the advantage in any scenario."
—Warden Hixus, to Kytheon

Instead of creating a tool that would be damaged by heat, the Thran built one that was charged by it.

The more important the message, the larger the messenger.




"I needed an extra set of hands, so I built one."
—Kenji, Sokenzan artisan





The vedalken interrogate all intruders—once the hoverguards are done with them.
The suspicious kithkin of Kinscaer patrol the skies, their eyes attuned to the shapes of outsiders.



Designed by Mike Neumann
"It has latched onto this place like an infestation. All efforts at eradication have proved futile."
—Yeter, Trostad villager


The Cabal assured the Seven Houses that hostages receive all the food and rest they require.
Scholars say that arbiters exist on every world, created by an unknown hand to enforce justice.

Their bodies rotted, their bones splintered, and their souls frayed to tatters. Only then were they granted the mercy of death.
The detailed dispatch could be summarized in four words: "Time is running out."


"Weaponized jewelry has a long and respected history."
—Ervos Trax
The first satyr to wake after a revel must search for the site of the next one.


"It is impious to admit, but I do enjoy pirate blood. Something in the salty tang of it, the spice of rebellion."
"I'll know what you know soon enough."
—Nihiloor, Xanathar Guild spymaster

"Not all minotaurs are tribal. Some are freelance."
—Eron the Relentless

As their villages fell to werewolves, fleeing refugees discovered they too had remarkable survival instincts.

In every swirl of the tide, it sees the awakening of things yet to come.

Aetherborn who are unwilling to accept the decomposition of their bodies invent ways to preserve and augment themselves.
An apocalypse in dragon form.
"Courage is the only shield I need."
The horrors of Sorin's Haunted Mansion scared Hurrk half to life.
"Mandatory lockets enable the tracking of all Senate personnel for improved security and efficiency."
—Dovin Baan
Dromoka has regard for the humans who serve under her. In return for her protection, they obey with steadfast loyalty, acting as weapons for her and her scalelords against the other clans.

Her melody melds death and beauty with such artistry that even the gods weep to hear it.
There once was a player named Quinn, . . .
They are the masters of your mind.

On Mirrodin, mages who call upon the power of rust are shunned by their people and often turn mercenary to survive.


The Mirari burns in his heart.



"When merrows talk, listeners grow fins."
—Kithkin saying
A mook's life span is just long enough to get just good enough to get careless.



"Shar's will shall be done. As sure as night will fall."




No screams rang out. No blood stained the streets. In an instant, the bustling metropolis simply fell silent.
"Someday, someone will best me. But it won't be today, and it won't be you."

"Kalitas may have returned to mindless servitude beneath the Eldrazi, but we say never again."
—Drana, Kalastria bloodchief


"Did Purphoros bless Maikal because of his rage? Or did Maikal's rage blossom after he'd been blessed? Only the gods know."
—Eocles, oracle of Purphoros

"Crovax knows we're coming now," said a grinning Sisay. "I just sent the *Predator* crashing into his stronghold."

"The most brilliant stars are not born of Nyx."
—Rhexenor, Akroan flamespeaker


The dwarves call their quicksilver techniques "improvisational weaponsmithing."
"Before we can destroy our enemies, we must find them. We must peer into every wretched hovel and every teeming market."
—Baral, Chief of Compliance
To protect the alliance between Kjeldor and Yavimaya, they trained in the ways of both.


"Gazing at the unicorn, I felt closer to the majesty of Nyx than I ever had before."
—Oineus, traveling merchant
"For each griffin wounded by an arrow, there's a corpse with a bow nearby."
—Pel Javya, Wojek investigator

"Drannith gives no quarter to traitors."
—General Kudro


"I will never run out of new oceans to explore or new sea-dwellers to embrace as my own."
—Kiora



"No body can contain so much fury. It reminds me of another battle, long past."
—Sarkhan Vol
Warnis had always felt a glimmer of potential within herself, flickering just out of reach. That night, as the cultists attacked, it became a torrent of power that was hers to command.

"Life up here is simple. Adapt to the ways of the mountains and they will reward you. Fight them and they will end you."
—Kezim, prodigal pyromancer
"This is the beginning of a beautiful friendship. And more importantly, a profitable one. Now sign here."


After diverting around the eleventh construction barrier, the taxi driver began to suspect she was being herded into a trap.
"Our enemy is nothing less than the end of all life. We shall not want for allies."
—*The War Diaries*

Ships blown north in their voyage across the Stormwreck Sea become trapped in the unmelting ice.
Only the good-hearted may set foot in a unicorn's domain.
"Madness and genius are separated only by degrees of success."
—Sidar Jabari

"Trained to battle the followers of Tourach, the Order of Leitbur was not as successful in later conflicts with Orcish and Goblin raiders."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. I*


"It has been my experience that disasters like to strike in pairs."
"Today I take the reins of destiny itself. Today the Draconic Apocalypse is upon you."

"If I wanted your opinion, I'd have told you what it was."
—Pemmin, Riptide survivor
Upon such armor, even a mountain would break.
"About, about in reel and rout The death-fires danced at night; The water, like a witch's oils, Burnt green, and blue and white." —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
The murk of the Wanderbrine concealed unseemly rituals designed to bring out the worst in merrowkind.
"You see our world when you shut your eyes so tightly that tiny shapes float before them."
—Lyna, to Ertai
The hardest part of his training is learning not to eat the boar.

"Kobolds are harmless." —Bearand the Bold, epitaph
"I feel the presence of the God-Pharaoh in the Second Sun, and I rise upon its rays."
Maze-runners who pass through the Rakdos gate leave behind their scruples and a significant amount of skin.
"The scavengers who first found it called it the 'Bone Crank.' Not a bad name, I'd say."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
His beasts move the great siege towers of the Abzan across the endless sands.
Only Sylvok magic could truly capture the perfection of a Mirrodin sunrise.
The kor track hartebeests in hopes of finding magic to help fight the Eldrazi.
「我々が忘れてしまった考えはどこへ行ってすまったのだ？かつて知っていたことが思い出せない。」
——タイヴァ校長の日記

"Pain is both a tool and a craft. Like any tool, it must be sharpened. Like any craft, it must be practiced."
—Hooks, Cabal torturer
The less you have, the harder you fight for it.
Though he eventually came to despise Tocasia, Mishra listened well to her lessons on clarity of purpose. Unlike his brother, he focused his mind on a single goal.

"You helped save my people from a Phyrexian fate. Did you think I wouldn't return the favor?"
—Eladamri, to Gerrard
Over their long life spans, the larger trilobites accumulate vast treasure troves in their guts.


To the sorrow of all, its dark reach grasped and crushed those who guarded its silent vigil.
"A massive new Izzet building project with an unstated purpose? Probably fine."
—Zija, Simic mutationist


"And all this time I thought *we* were tracking *it*."
—Juruk, Kalonian tracker
The vibrant forest of Peema is awash with aether. Its animals are stronger, faster, and more aggressive than their counterparts elsewhere.

"This little prize will cover your head, your spells, your bets, and your behind!"
—Pashad ibn Asim, Suq'Ata trader
"Uni! Uni! I knew you'd come back!"
—Bobby

The militia formed up in the central plaza awaiting the onslaught, but the giants never quite made it.

"If you live on a giant's back, there's only one individual you'll ever need to fear."
—Gaddock Teeg


"Why squabble for trinkets when we could be living large off all this gold?"
—Admiral Beckett Brass
"Why fight the world when you know who will win?"
—Nissa Revane



"Ashes to ashes, rust to rust."
—Viridian shaman
"Don't excavate too far into those canyons. I promised your parents I'd return you in one piece."
—Tocasia
"If you think you've killed one, guess again."
—Thalia, Knight-Cathar
The Gruul seek unbounded strength. The Dimir deliver cruel irony.
The slivers would survive, even at the expense of every other creature on Otaria.
Changelings can't remember where they came from. They just know it wasn't a cradle.



The Auriok see the artificer as a conduit, beckoning new creations into the world.



"I'd rather go out in a blaze of glory than fade away and be forgotten."
Realizing they weren't getting past the fog, the elves did the only thing they could do: wait.


The kraul once skulked in the outskirts of Golgari society, but with Vraska's rise, they became valued forces of the Swarm.


Frequent, violent storms shape the Nephalia coastline, sculpting cliffs and caves where monsters often lurk.
"I give them dreams so wondrous that they hesitate to return to the world of the conscious."
—Garild, merfolk mage



Gruul shamans are bent on punishing the civilized. Any act more complex than rubbing sticks together or eating with utensils is met with the stinging burn of their magic.

"I have seen the night torn into thin darkling strips and woven into shapes too bleak for dreams."
—Crovax



"I will catch you, child of the sun. I will drink your life and leave you a husk, discarded in the shadows."
Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.
The dwarves of Axgard seldom have reason to leave their impregnable underground kingdom—but when they do, they go in force.
"Piece the tragic notes together and is it not a melody?"
—Teysa



Used carefully, material has been exposed to the baleful energies of the Warp can be contained to fuel powerful rituals.
"Air hot with sulfur. / Earth heaves beneath me. / Could it be the mountain / ate something bad?"
—Dwarven mining song

Even on a world of metal, there are those who thirst for blood.
For the first time in his life, Grakk felt a little warm and fuzzy inside.




"Bright spores coalesced in empty air. Seedlings burst through barren soil. Genesis had arrived.
—*Scroll of Beginnings*



Constructed of leather and irony.
"Cease your pathetic struggling."

Few Nayans dare hunt the gargantuans. They're regarded not as animals but as forces of nature, like landslides or typhoons.




"They are called 'Mi'uto,' which means 'one use.'"
—Jhoira, artificer




The Fates tried to cut her string but found the thread had turned to iron.
Only Sylvok magic could truly capture the perfection of a Mirrodin sunrise.


"Today we are not Beskir or Tuskeri. We must fight as one clan, shoulder to shoulder, to defend our rightful home!"
The Phyrexians don't want to conquer Dominaria. They want to remake it.
Nine fires, a hull breach, and a Quafloovian meganibbler escaped from the petting zoo. Things were suspiciously quiet.


They walk the Path of Kensei with perfect balance.
The flicker of candlelight and the echo of hymns told the villagers that the monastery wasn't truly abandoned.
"Perhaps you can't see the path, but that doesn't mean it isn't there."
The realms crashed together, with Bretagard at the center of the calamity.



A shadowy version of its corporeal cousin, this lynx hunts souls, not meals.
It was a night like any other. It would soon become a night no one would ever forget.
If you can see it, it's too late.
Among the Zhur-Taa Clan, goblins are the first to enter battlefury. When the battle is over, the survivors are still frothing at the mouth, looking for someone to hit.
"Not all nightmares can be escaped by waking."
—Ashiok, Nightmare Weaver
Arrows are only one way to remove an enemy.



"Die. But die knowing that your pathetic life will yield a great bounty for me."
—Zul Ashur, lich lord



"Ah, we have a critic."
—Orthion, Lavabrink captain

"Those mewling Barbarians will cower before my righteous steel!"
—General Varchild
Sunhome—the stalwart shield, the towering sentinel, the seat of justice.
It was in fields of grain, not fields of battle, that the Champion learned to bear the yoke of duty to the gods. She worked the land long before she was called on to defend it.
—*The Theriad*
"One for you, one for me. What could be more fair?"
—Kethis, the Hidden Hand

"What worked to bring down angels will do the same for these horrors."
—Rem Karolus, Slayer of Eldrazi
Rain from this storm leaves you pinned to the ground like an insect.
Little agonies pave the way to greater power.
Deserted, but not uninhabited.

"Bant's most gallant knights wear my sigil, and for that I am humbled."
"We will grow an army large enough to withstand the Izzet's madness."
—Trostani
"The light of my master's guidance traverses all boundaries, even those separating life and death."

"What good is your blade without your breath?"
—Greht, Gathan warlord

For a moment, objects of pure mana glimmered in the wonderstruck boggart's hands. In the next moment, they were in his mouth, as he chewed contentedly.



"It has latched onto this place like an infestation. All efforts at eradication have proved futile."
—Yeter, Trostad villager

"The bird of wonder dies, the maiden phoenix,/ Her ashes new-create another heir/ As great in admiration as herself."
—William Shakespeare, King Henry the Eighth

Though she is rightly feared, there are relatively few tales of her deeds in battle, for few survive her raids.

"Tomorrow wears yesterday's face."
—Kordel the Cryptic



Dragons come not in packs or in herds but in storms.

"The treasure in my mind is greater than any worldly glory."

Little dreamt could seem so cruel As waiting for the wings outspread, The jagged teeth, the burning eyes, And dagger-claws that clench to nerves.


Its transmissions are the word of Memnarch. It speaks, and metal bows.
The uncorrupted rallied under Thalia's leadership and Sigarda's banner.
Kuldotha, wellspring of molten metal, temple of the goblin horde.

"The bigger they are, the more fun it is to watch them fall flat on their faces."

Bones scattered around us joined to form misshapen bodies. We struck at them repeatedly—they fell, but soon formed again, with the same mocking look on their faceless skulls.
The land drank power from the Mirari as though it had thirsted forever.

He gasped in wonder even as his body crumbled away.
Vorinclex removed its teeth so it wouldn't waste time chewing before moving to the next kill.



"My heart and Zendikar's beat as one. Together we will endure."
—Nissa Revane

"When gods become apathetic, the people will worship anyone who answers their pleas."
—Kiora
Tumult is its natural habitat.
"But no one heard the snake's gentle hiss for peace over the elephant's trumpeting of war."
—Afari, *Tales*


"Show them to Razia and then to the Azorius sky marshals. We could create a fine bidding war—enough to fund the final stages of Project Kraj."
—Momir Vig
"We have more sprouts than they have hands."
—Gamelen, Citanul elder
The centaurs' simple magic can undo a basilisk's gaze, but only for a short time.
As the Eldrazi adapted to the jungles of Zendikar, some took on the tactics of more familiar predators.
An emblem of a secret guild, the Dimir insignia is seen only by its own members-and the doomed.

They talk a good fight.


Searching the city for Fblthp felt like sifting the rain for a single drop of blood.

Survival in the wilds of Naya left Tiyan well equipped to win the civilized battles of Bant.
Their arrows are tipped with basilisk eyes and fletched with cockatrice feathers.
At the general's triumphant return, renewed strength surged through the soldiers' ranks.

"Even storm clouds bow to worship Avacyn."
—Elder Rimheit


"Let's play 'sled.' Here's how it works: you're the sled."
Thassa felt no need to punish the sailors for their folly in crossing the straits. The kraken would do it for her.
Lumengrid, site of the Knowledge Pool, source of vedalken arcana.
Eventually, mages learned to harness the power of natural damping fields and use it for their own ends.
"Our law prohibits capital punishment. We believe even the gravest offenders have the chance to redeem themselves."
—Torian Sha, soul warden
After the Battle of Pitdown, Lady Ursnell fashioned the first such instrument out of Lord Ursnell's left leg.

"This creature has hyperevolved chameleonic abilities. It no longer mimics its surroundings, instead forcing them to take on its form."
—Simic research notes



By the sixth day of darkness, the lake was more blood than water.



"If you think you are brave enough to walk the path of honor, follow me into the dragon's den."

"Out here we're nothing but our training."
—Ethuk, Coppercoat mage

Memories of the Harvesttide tragedy festered until they grew into an incarnate rage that set the world ablaze.
For the Legion of Dusk, the Immortal Sun is a source of eternal life. When they reclaim it, they will no longer be forced to subsist on the blood of the wicked.
"You've discovered that boggarts bite, I see. And will the militia be chasing this lot? . . . Ah, you're staying in town to avoid Nath's hunt. Wise. Now this poultice . . ."
Not content to nudge vases and chill drawing rooms, some geists muster spectral armies to claw at the hearts of the living.


In life, they were a motley crew: farmers, lords, cutpurses, priests. In death, they are united in singular, benevolent purpose.

Dweldian magi don't enter the Realm of Thrones when they die. Instead their souls are drawn to great works of magic.


Not wind, but the breath of the dead.

"There are only fifty words in the cyclops language, and ten of them mean 'kill.'"
—Ertai

"We paid the Simic very well for this capability, but we should quickly recoup our expenses in saved wages."
—Milana, Orzhov prelate
"Why throw away a perfectly good identity?"




"This is about more than aether or inventions. Tezzeret's schemes must be stopped!"
—Ajani Goldmane
In its hoofprints, barren dust becomes fertile ground.
Scholars had puzzled for centuries over the ruins at Tal Terig. Its secrets had always lived within one rune-carved head.
The earth walks, strongest of all.


"Don't worry about it. It happens to every mage sooner or later."



The greatest idea the zombie ever had in its head wasn't even its own.
Gaea needs no book to record every act.
Mirrodin's creator still lives, still shapes metal, and still commands world-shaking power.
"Innistrad's ghoulcallers are talented enough, but let me show you what someone with real power can create."
—Liliana Vess
"Such an affliction appears to seek out the pure."
—Byro, plague doctor
"The star-born approach! Their holy angels descend! Take up arms, my brothers and sisters, for the Day of Ascension is upon us!"

Silent as winter snow, it seeks wild places unspoiled by the walking dead.
To consult a sphinx is a test in patience. Perhaps that's the point.
"The dead make good soldiers. They can't disobey orders, they never surrender, and they don't stop fighting when a random body part falls off."
—Nevinyrral,
*Necromancer's Handbook*
In their twisted logic, to empty the shadow world is to escape it.




Another imminent battle subsided in busy snuffling and carefree rooting.


It is the forest beyond the horizon, the mountain waiting to be climbed, the new land across the endless sea.

"I knew it weren't no ordinary pile of—you know."
—Norin the Wary
Rain from this storm leaves you pinned to the ground like an insect.
Are merfolk humans with fins, or are humans merfolk with feet?
"Fuses? We have more than enough! Now . . . which one was it?"
—Flearan One-Eye, goblin engineer

A vertical scream pierces the night air and echoes doom through the clouds.

"The Reaper bids you rise!"



Baby dragons can't figure out humans—if they didn't want to be killed, why were they made of meat and treasure?

"Thraben's pleas fall on deaf ears. Ours do not."
Devils love adding injury to injury.

The first of the Thousand Deaths.





The arrival of the Planar Bridge caused eddies in the aether, creating some entirely new species while transforming others.


"Only cowards flee from the truth."
—Perisophia the philosopher


"I'm too modest a wizard to reveal the full extent of my abilities."
—Ertai, wizard adept


Once he gets up and going, he will forever shamble on.
"Goblins bred underground, their numbers hidden from the enemy until it was too late."
—*Sarpadian Empires*, vol. IV



"The key to unlocking this puzzle is within you."
—Doriel, mentor of Mistral Isle
"We coat ourselves in steel every day. What is etherium but the next logical step?"

"I am not afraid to die today nor afraid of what death will bring."


Gale stared into the pool and saw a stranger. The similarities were uncanny, but it was not him.


It lives in the mountaintops, feeds at the mountains' feet, and kills anything it finds on the path between.


As Jhoira restored the *Weatherlight*, a mushroom growing in its hold unexpectedly became her first crew member.
After millennia asleep, the Eldrazi had forgotten about Zendikar's fiery temper and dislike of strangers.





Arel dreamed of winter's end. The next morning she followed a strange trail and found a seedling in the snow.
Some tides need no moon.

To the Sultai, Ugin's power was just one more resource to be exploited.

Once guarded by the Knights of the Reliquary, the tower stands now protected only by its own remoteness, its dusty treasures open to plunder by anyone.
Without a foe to focus on, the machine priests had time to indulge in new sciences.
"Goblins build with true zeal—and anything else within arm's reach."
"Our glorious infection has taken hold."
—Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite
The smallest seed of regret can bloom into redemption.




Despite the chaos of the Roil and the devastation of the Eldrazi, Zendikar is a world of breathtaking beauty.



The leonin thought of the myr as omens, never imagining the sinister fate they foretold.


"Abzan, Jeskai, Sultai, Mardu, Temur—names lost to history, yet worthy of further study."
—Narset
Perfectly suited for life in the Shifting Wastes, the krushok is well protected by its horn, its hide, and its temper.

"Ah, the old 'trap door under a rug' trick. This is almost too easy."
Count carefully the souls and see that none are lost.
—Vec teaching

Rowan and Will were a natural fit in Prismari College, the school of outrageous elemental arts.


"Where's the fun in an escape if it's not at least a little daring?"




Many sigils, one purpose.
"Wisdom is not the counting of all the drops in a waterfall. Wisdom is learning why the water seeks the earth."



Sometimes death comes knocking. Sometimes it tears down the walls.
Remade by Eldrazi magic, Tuktuk inspired an entire clan of misguided goblins.

"The only perfect world is an empty world, with no one to sin or wage war."
—Tarran, magus of the disk
"Mortals practice swordplay for a few decades at best. How can they ever attain the exquisite mastery that eternity has to offer?"




The defenses of the Abzan extend well beyond the walls of their fortresses.

In an age of war, time is measured not by sand but by blood.

"The beasts of the wild are my senses. It is through their eyes that all knowledge shall come to me."




"I see in their interconnectedness a strange embodiment of the natural order."
—Dionus, elvish archdruid


Some say Banshees are the hounds of Death, baying to herd their prey into the arms of their master.

"There's only one route from Kessig into Stensia. Unless you come with me."
Perception is more pleasing than truth.




"The monks of the South Tree had always reveled beneath their kodama's friendly gaze. During the Kami War, this gaze became fierce and full of hate."
—"Poem of the Five Trees"
The strength of the people comes from the land. And the bounty of the land comes from Karametra.
Drakes become especially voracious as they prepare for their autumn migration, hunting the city's thoroughfares from dawn to dusk.



"We realized the bog had not given up a soul but had come to claim a new one."
—Scout Ekemet, final journal
"The city is overrun. I would say burn it to the ground, but that won't be necessary."
—Inquisitor Delmund


A last wisp of paradise in a fallen world.
The masks, like the ancient trees they're grown from, lend strength to the dryads.
"I would fear this fight, bloodsucker, were I alone."
Ordinary moths follow it, drawn to its light.
For the Simic Combine, its sigil serves not as an emblem of honor but as a trademark. Its familiar image on any biological commodity attests to superb craftsmanship, ingenious innovation, and higher cost.
"A great wave crashed, and a mighty wind blew out the stars."
—*The Cosmogony*

It was a night like any other. It would soon become a night no one would ever forget.


Checking around every corner doesn't help if you forget to look up.

There are only two rules of tactics: never be without a plan, and never rely on it.
"You idiots! Turn it around! Turn it around!"

"He expects a reward, but the only piece of silver he'll get from me is my blade in his gut."
—Shelac, necromancer
A lightning elemental once killed an entire tribe of merfolk—simply by going for a swim.
"Long live . . . me."

After his death, the general was reunited with fallen soldiers from over thirty of his campaigns.
The shepherds work in secret, seeking out abominations against nature and returning them to earth and dust.
"We learned something from the Simic. Unfortunately for them."
—Nefara, Dimir agent
In their final moments, the demons gazed upon grace in its purest form.
As the strange plague ravaged Jamuraa, the fiends multiplied.
"It's like they planted another Bastion right in the middle of the harbor."
—Bes Tavani, Bomat merchant
"My mind has changed. My strength has not."
"And topples round the dreary west A looming bastion fringed with fire." —Alfred, Lord Tennyson, "In Memoriam"

"Citizen! Your crime has been recorded. Cease movement and await arrest, or further penalties will be immediately imposed."

If it comes for you, die boldly or die swiftly—for die you will.
"For those without the Planeswalker spark, the merest touch of the Blind Eternities can kill."
—Ugin
「魔法は大界に平和をもたらしたが、すぐに腐敗した。」
——神秘の時代：呪文物語

The paths of the kami crisscrossed Kamigawa like scars left by a maddened surgeon.
It spins its web throughout the undercity, strange growths sprouting in its wake.
2017 North American Vintage Champion
"Murder of the living is tragic, but murder of the idea is unforgivable."
—Janus, speaker of the synod
It strides through the whitecover, mists in which even gargantuans can hide.
"Its weak spot is easily spotted, but only if it's swooping down on you."
—Jonald, mission naturalist




"Thorn bushes spring up wherever the army has passed. Lean years follow in the wake of a great war."
—Lao Tzu, *Tao Te Ching* (trans. Feng and English)



Nightfire turns the greatest weakness of the undead into formidable strength.
The dense jungle surrenders to a lush and lavish expanse. At its center uncoil the spires of Qarsi Palace.




The squad plunged deep into Hive Pandorial, finding only the shambling corpses of those they came to avenge.


"They say Head Judge Tezzeret will be reviewing every invention at the Fair. I made sure to build something that will stand out."
—Jehvani, Vahadar artificer
"Beauty to the eye does not always translate to the touch."
—Naimah, Femeref philosopher
"Infinite ideas flow through the Multiverse, waiting for an open mind."
—*The Biblioplex: An Introduction*


"Here and gone like a fleeting breeze."

"Only when I saw my enemy walk through all my defenses, untouchable as the moon in the sky, did I truly know what it is to be afraid."
—King Ixes
The pain of death is nothing compared to the pain of failure.

Your parents taught you that strength can be nurtured and honed, no matter one's size.



It carries the hopes of Zendikar's embattled wilds on its mighty boughs.
During the giant crabs' mating season, Skyshroud nights are filled with the clatter of their skirmishes.



Jukai Forest was known for its secrets, which drew in many wayfarers and wizards. But it was those same secrets that kept most of those seekers from ever being heard from again.


"I never had the nerve to open that bottle. I'll bet you're wishing right now you hadn't been so curious yourself."
—Old Rutstein
The Ogre philosopher Gnerdel believed the purpose of life was to live as high on the food chain as possible. She refused to eat vegetarians, preferring to live entirely on creatures that preyed on sentient beings.
"Give 'em a push."
—Mogwin, goblin delinquent
"My family protects all families."
"She walks among us unseen, learning from our imperfections."
—*The Seer's Parables*




"Our noblest thoughts are our very first and our very last."


It's hard to be humble when the whole world is bite size.




"Are they on our side?" asked Sisay. "If they kill Phyrexians they are," replied Gerrard.

"Do you see? All of Tazeem strains at its tether."
—Noyan Dar, Tazeem roilmage
With their usual prey scared off by werewolves, the wolves of the Ulvenwald adopted inventive new hunting techniques.
Legend has it that Serpents used to be bigger, but how could that be?

Deserted, but not uninhabited.
In the swirling mists, you could walk right up to one and not know until its teeth are in your throat.

"They're not your friends; they despise you. I'm the only one you can count on. Trust me."
Throughout the three kingdoms, important generals were often guarded by small groups of expert soldiers known as "elite companions."
Sometimes you die a glorious death with your sword held high. Sometimes you're just target practice.
Her horn is heard across Innistrad, lifting the hearts of the righteous.
"My work here is complete. The people have done everything required of them."
—Nicol Bolas



She collects only the choicest of deaths.




It absorbs the pain of other treefolk, which leaves it bitter, yet addicted to the sensation of agony.
"Gix failed. I shall not."
"Innocent thorns can fill the air with your bloodscent. Don't stray from the path."
—Elmut, crossway watcher
They follow the prophecy to each new prophet, guarding the future from the present.
"We hid such stockpiles all over Rath. We should continue that practice here."
—Lin Sivvi
In any adventuring party, the cleric is the heart: healing wounds, inspiring courage, and raising morale.

To explorers, "point man" is a polite way of saying "gomazoa fodder."
"I am the purifier, the light that clears all shadows."
—Seal inscription


Garbage in, treasure out.


The sky takes flight and the earth trembles.
"Doves and pigeons are too subtle. When I send a message, I want it to have some teeth."
—Aeschel, royal diplomat


"Whoever said two heads are better than one never met a hydra before."
—Crocodile Jackson, legendary cowboy
A force as voracious as time itself.






When provoked, a flamekin's inner fire burns far hotter than any giant's forge.
Some will sacrifice everything for but a taste of power.
"The mountains have been corrupted. Otherwise, they would not lend me their fire so easily."
—Koth of the Hammer
"Though there is little to be learned from your dust and stones, I shall wring them dry nevertheless."




"Lost man, dead man, knocking on the door. Cankerman, soreman, knock no more."
—Ravnican children's rhyme
"I will secure my revenge on Zendikar one soul at a time."
—Ob Nixilis
Rakdos festivals almost leave enough rubble in their wake to hide the bodies.

Its venom induces a fever that causes its victims to relive the attack in recurring, haunting visions.


"You must be mad to want one such as I aboard the *Weatherlight*. But I would be mad to remain here with my rotting family. I accept."
—Crovax

Possession is eleven-tenths of the pirate code.
"Contrary to popular wisdom, I find it's best to fight fire with its opposite."


A delicate veil of glamers can prove as sturdy as iron.



"Works every time."
—Halana, Kessig ranger

"Thassa has blessed me with power and insight. I am careful not to disappoint her."
'Twas in the bogs of Cannelbrae My mate did meet an early grave 'Twas nothing left for us to save In the peat-filled bogs of Cannelbrae.
Ugin's whispered summons led Sarkhan Vol to the moment that would echo down the centuries and seal Tarkir's fate: the primal battle between Ugin and Nicol Bolas.
The Capashen built the highest towers in Benalia to afford themselves the best view.
"Even the threat of power has power."
—Jeska, warrior adept


To wield lightning is to tame chaos.
"Your life is finished, your name lost, and your work forgotten. It is as though Mazeura never existed."
—*Chainer's Torment*

"It's right to fear those that you keep locked away."
—Rahilda, Vildin-Pack alpha

The unit of measurement used to chart a cerodon's growth is "persons consumed."

"Why do we pray to the Ancestor? Because She listens."
—Mystic elder




For the necromancer barons, killing and recruitment are one and the same.
"I hope to meet Jaya Ballard someday. I think we'd get along."
—Chandra Nalaar
The thunderhead that leads in the storm.

Benalia has a complex caste system that changes with the lunar year. No matter what the season, the only caste that cannot be attained by either heredity or money is that of the hero.

The essence of wind to lift up the weary.
Don't cross a Devkarin elf unless you long for an early grave.




A heaven-sent vision is like a lantern to guide the way.



"We attacked with arrows dipped in poison. The slivers that did not die began to change."
—Hastric, Thunian scout

Silent. Slithering. Sinister.



No two draw the same Maro.

"Where did she come from? More importantly, are there more like her?"
—Gideon Jura



The lacerators cut themselves before each hunt. They must feed before the sun rises or bleed to death.

Cries of panic echo along Kessig's narrow ravines as howlpacks herd their prey.
For the Simic Combine, its sigil serves not as an emblem of honor but as a trademark. Its familiar image on any biological commodity attests to superb craftsmanship, ingenious innovation, and higher cost.



"It's a ghoul-eat-you world out there. Follow my orders if you want to survive."
"I turn around and see nothing, yet I know it is behind me. Its fingers rummage in my mind, crafting new ideas."
It moved through the troops leaving no footprints, save on their souls.
"I'm going to count to three. Three."


Though she stood alone, she struck with the force of an army.

There were no tombstones in orochi territory. Slain warriors were buried with a tree sapling, so they would become a part of the forest after death.
"To send the common people to war untrained is to throw them away."
—Confucius, *The Analects* (trans. Lau)
On the wild steppes, history vanishes in the dust. Only the mythmakers remain to say what was, and is, and will be.
"As it moved, the wurm's spines gathered up bits of flowstone, which took the shapes of dead villagers' heads. Each head spoke a single sound, but if taken together, they said, 'Alas for the living.'"
—Dal myth of the wurm
"Fields can be replanted. Settlements can be rebuilt. Burn it all."
—Latulla, Keldon overseer
There's no such thing as upside down in space. Put another way, there are infinite upside downs in space.
Escapes should always be daring.

"Brave scar or unfortunate tale? It all depends on your pain threshold."





Members of the elite Moorish Cavalry are very particular about their mounts, choosing only those whose bloodlines have been pure for generations.


After five thousand years, the nightmare returned.




Though the spirits' bodies were ethereal, Agnur soon learned that their blades were quite solid—and razor-sharp.

It gives legs to the earth and wings to the sky.






"We have no need for military might. We wield two of the sharpest swords ever forged: Faith in our left hand, Wealth in our right."
—Vuliev of the Ghost Council

To strike down the phoenix is to slash at the flame.
A savage cry with the power to shatter minds.
"True power is controlling not only the hearts of your subjects, but their minds as well."

In the arena, vampires set aside all pretense of honor or civilization and fight like the predators they know themselves to be.
Hunter by instinct, weapon by training.
Hordes of Eldrazi and cultists swarmed over Thraben's defenses, and the members of the Gatewatch found themselves overrun.





The realms crashed together, with Bretagard at the center of the calamity.
An avatar he sculpts of anger and flame.
Diluted, moonglove can etch living tissue. Concentrated, a drop will kill a giant.



"Consider the wave: how weak the mother yet how strong the child."
—Tywanna, Shaper Guildmage
"What do you have that I cannot obtain?"
—Mairsil, the Pretender
"I swear the clouds were created just so the drakes would have a place to lurk."
—Kasharri, skyknight
"There is no calamity greater than lavish desires./ There is no greater guilt than discontentment./ And there is no greater disaster than greed." —*Tao Tê Ching 46*

With no flesh to tire or resolve to falter, the machines soon became the Academy's preferred trainers.


"The curse is broken."


"Some say you cannot hit what you cannot see. I prefer that you hit what I want you to see."
—Arcanis the Omnipotent

"The land is weary. Even Skyshroud is depleted. We must find another source of mana—one that is growing despite our withering world."
—Freyalise
"Where will you run when I punish you with the very ground you flee on?"
—Nicol Bolas

His grim ritual ushers the dead to their new life.
"You aren't invited."



"The young squire gripped her sword as the clanking stranger emerged. It was no knight that had come to challenge her."
—*Beyond the Great Henge*

The goblins really put themselves into the fireworks show, despite Myra's pleas to stop.


"What is drowned is not forgotten. I will fulfill my oath. Come back to me, my brethren, as I have come back for you."


"This may hurt a little."

The rising tide of Orazca's plunder lifted all ships.


"At this rate I fully expect to be replaced by a clockwork golem by year's end."
—Barrin

"These benighted worlds are thick with ignorance. I will educate them. They will listen, or they will die."
"Each night, the sun unravels and blows away. Each day, the spiders set a new one in the sky."
—Sunseeder myth
Gix pierced his disciples' minds and savored their experiences as he took in their knowledge.
Necromancers deal in commodities far more precious than gold and grain.
All druids seek to preserve nature, but some go about it in rather unusual ways.

"We must rely on our own knowledge, not on the dogma of the seekers or the mutterings of the sphinxes."
—Tullus of Palandius


Disturb a sleeping badger and the snapping of your bones will awaken the countryside.
Infinite possibilities contained in a finite space.

"Let me give you a hand. He won't be needing it; he's left-handed. Also dead."
Opening Orazca unleashed more horrors than just the Immortal Sun.

It harnesses the power of night in a land where daylight fears to show itself.
Fire never dies alone.


"Every coin helps rebuild the town they destroyed."
Hunter by instinct, weapon by training.



When the blood hunt lost its thrill, she looked for less tangible means of domination.

Elves know where to harvest the best of the forest, for they planted it there themselves.

"As you breathe your last, understand why I accept such forbidden gifts."
—Purraj of Urborg

Griffin flocks still patrol the skies above the Zhalfirin void, as though they are waiting for their old home to reappear.

Some cathars succumbed to despair at Avacyn's unmaking. The rest redoubled their efforts to carry out her work.
"Well, who do we have here, Gorm?"
"No one, Virtus. No one at all."







Silence costs extra. Breaking it costs extra still.
"Those who say money can't buy happiness clearly don't have enough."
Ultimately, it became a three-way battle: the land attacked both armies.
Don't try to outrun one of Dominaria's grizzlies; it'll catch you, knock you down, and eat you. Of course, you could run up a tree. In that case you'll get a nice view before it knocks the tree down and eats you.
Vulshok mana rituals echo the day when the red sun burst through Mirrodin's surface to take its place in the heavens.
"In these halls there is no pass or fail. Your true test comes with the first full moon."
What self-indulgence tears down, discipline builds up again.



"And topples round the dreary west A looming bastion fringed with fire." —Alfred, Lord Tennyson, "In Memoriam"
The rising tide of Orazca's plunder lifted all ships.


Though losses run high among the scouts of the Stone Havens, they never flinch from their duty.
"They are called 'fowl' for a reason."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight*
Only one Eldrazi stood against them, yet the defenders were outnumbered.

After the oryx dies, its flesh returns to the earth, but its emerald bones remain as a tribute to the forest.

"An axe may break upon a ribbon if the ribbon's will is the stronger."
—Awylla, elvish safewright




At the Astrotorium, even the dead make a living wage.
One day, it might provide a flash of insight that turns the tide of battle. Meanwhile, it looks lovely on an end table.

Jund's dragons hoard only sangrite crystals. Its wurms aren't so picky.
A beacon of prosperity to some, a shadow of oppression to others.
"The best way to teach is by example."

"It's okay. My mother owns the museum."

"Just the thing for those pesky water mages."
—Jaya Ballard, task mage
Every footstep is a prayer, every road a temple.


"We can't beat the necromancers in numbers or raw power. We must beat them with ingenuity and timing."
—Rannon, Vithian holdout
Dark thoughts hatch and twist within the mind, straining to take wing.
"We'll have time to put out the fires when those trapped within the ruins are safe."




"All who set foot in Paliano are pawns in someone's play for power."
—Marchesa, the Black Rose
Jace traced Nahiri to the Singing City, but the magic of the ancient ruins threatened to overwhelm his mind.



The correct answer to a barbarian's riddle is to choke on your cleverness and die.
A deflated sigh breathed into the horn emerges as an inspiring melody.
"The land belongs to nature as far as our eyes can see. The higher we climb, the more we can see."
The Consulate keeps watch at each of the eleven bridges to ensure that the market remains a haven for commerce, not for con artists.

"The bane of countless shattered weapons, each a failure to slay her."
—Daghatar the Adamant


The scales of battle rarely balance.


Made of bone and boiled in blood, a Rakdos signet is not considered finished until it has been used as a murder weapon.
"All we had left were their black and bloated bodies." —Maeveen O'Donagh, *Memoirs of a Soldier*




Designed by Brad Muir
Each spike is poisoned—the trapmaker's idea of mercy.

Goblins can carry their body weight in loot.

"This world is a dream. We cling to our toys like children, but sooner or later we must learn to live without them."
—Sensei Hisoka
Death's embrace need not be cold.
The Quicksilver Sea hissed and bubbled at the indignity. The Vulshok shaman just smiled.
The myr are like the Glimmervoid: blank canvases on which to build grand creations.




"You may enter the city—once the toll is paid."

I've learned how to disable wards, pick locks, and decode the Agaran language—all before even reading the scroll!

"Channeling the rage of the beast is the easy part. Explaining why you woke up with no memory in a pile of mangled lawmages—that's trickier."


"I can't hear them scream, but at least I don't have to listen to them beg."
—Phage the Untouchable
"The things I once imagined would be my greatest achievements were only the first steps toward a future I can only begin to fathom."
—Jace Beleren

Anrakyr the Traveler awoke from his slumber with a singular goal: to rebuild a united Necron galaxy.
Some of the eleven minotaur clans of Mirtiin are expert crafters and learned philosophers. Others just like to hit stuff.


Heavy enough to withstand the Roil, leatherback skeletons are havens for travelers in storms and landshifts.


The weapons deployed to drive the Traitor Legions into the Eye of Terror were so destructive that some planets still have not recovered.
Not all beautiful things are fragile.
"The world is already run by all manner of machines. One day, they'll remind us of that fact."
—Sargis Haz, artificer


Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.

"I prefer loyalty to be a matter of respect, not of magic. But one does what one must."
—Kaalia of the Vast
A light an army can follow.

At low tide it slumbers. At high tide it devours.
More than one mage was driven insane by the sound of the Millstone relentlessly grinding away.

Amid rumors of war, the third act of *The Absolution of the Guildpact* was quickly rewritten as a tragedy.

"We will descend upon you like a plague of locusts to purge you from our lands!"
—Hirov, commander of the Thousand Swords

It is one of the oldest nim, steeped so long in the Dross that it has lost all vestiges of humanity.

Master the sky and you rule everything beneath it.
—Metathran saying
"The sylex blast marked not only the end of the war, but the end of Dominaria as most knew it."
—*The Antiquities War*
"Death is merely another foe the Mardu will overcome."


"Look how cute it is now!"
—Vivien Reid


"Many must die for the one who should not have perished."
"Steel may be more durable, but nothing channels the spite of the unjustly dead like bone."
—Braids
You see your next disguise in every stranger's smile.
Driven away by his living kin, he wanders mourning through the wilderness, seeking the dead city of Asphodel.


The hulk rose from the sea and loomed over the Champion. Pinned beneath the twisting, rotted planks of wood was the body of Kaliaros, the helmsman of her former crew, and beside him the captain, Photine.
—*The Theriad*
Its wings disturb more than air.
Their arrival is heralded by the deafening hum of ten thousand wings. Their departure is marked by the silence of the dead.
His victims don't have time to feel despair.
"I lost my hounds in the war and thus found myself employing akki as servants. I found their training to be remarkably similar."
—Kensuke, houndmaster
They inflict pain to forget their own and break foes to feel whole.




Never alone, never afraid.




"You can always count on the Azorius to ruin a party."
—Massacre Girl




Llanowar forges weapons of steel. Yavimaya grows her weapons within.


As the flames engulfed her, Chandra opened her heart and offered up her greatest regrets to be consumed by the inferno.

Where Razia was aloof and untouchable, Aurelia is on the frontlines, calling for war.

Words describing it fail. Pages relating it shrivel. Tales recounting it end.
"Esper, like any work of art, can be truly appreciated only from a distance."
—Tezzeret
A demon cannot be trusted, and a dragon will not be ruled.
"Death tried to uncrown me. But now I return, king of a greater realm."

"Give me eight walkers, I'll give you the city."
—Dovin Baan
"What else, when chaos draws all forces inward to shape a single leaf." —Conrad Aiken
"One vampire for every family member I've lost."



"The visions haunt me. I see the end of the world, brought on by the search for the Immortal Sun."
—Shaper Pashona


It begins as a whisper and ends with the red roar of fire.


The Joraga elves never need ask a troll to leave their territory. They merely grant it their combined strength, and it can't resist embarking on a merry rampage.


"The worthy shall respect the worthy. In the afterlife, all will stand united."
—Monument inscription

The Boros legionnaire saw a noble sacrifice, the Rakdos thug a blazing suicide, and the Izzet alchemist an experiment gone awry.

"The purest ore is produced from the hottest furnace, and the brightest thunder-bolt is elicited from the darkest storm."
—Charles Colton

May contain soy. May contain a deep void, chillingly hoarse and howling without voice. May contain gluten.
"It was a strange morning. When we awoke, we found our trees transformed. We didn't know whether to water them or polish them."
—Pulan, Bant orchardist

They refer to their methods as "special S.W.A.T. tactics," and no one has lived to correct them.

Driven away by his living kin, he wanders mourning through the wilderness, seeking the dead city of Asphodel.

"Serra isn't dead. She lives on through me."
"The rabble likes them. Make sure they win, then book them for tomorrow."
—Cabal Patriarch

From the moment they arrived, wedding guests were met with a pageant of wealth and excess.
Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.


Unlike previous conflicts, the war between Urza and Mishra made Dominia itself a casualty of war.
"You must pay for your sin in blood."

Built in honor of Alara's creatures, the ziggurat vanished long ago. When Progenitus awakened, the temple emerged again.



"One bite from that dog will send you to the healer's tent for days."
—Watchmaster Finn of An Karras
"The land grows only where the kami will it."
—Dosan the Falling Leaf

For good or ill, most fae can't resist meddling in the adventures of any knight they meet.


The scent of cooked flesh lingers in the charred landscape of Tarkir.
"Many wings haunt the skies these days. Few of them bear good tidings."
—Lavinia
"Let your heels point you home."
—Ancient blessing
"Death tried to uncrown me. But now I return, king of a greater realm."

"I'm too modest a wizard to reveal the full extent of my abilities."
—Ertai, wizard adept



"You can sign, or you can spend your life imagining what might have been yours."
To scrape out a living in Aphetto, wizards are reduced to selling rumors, lies, forgeries, or—if they get desperate enough—the truth.
"I don't like to speak ill of 'walkers . . . but just what did Teferi think he was doing?"
—Ertai, wizard adept

Sometimes, a butterfly flapping its wings is insignificant.

Torn from history. Torn from memory. Torn from reality.
She remembers every word spoken, from the hero's oath to the baby's cry.
"Is it true that the apes wear furs of gold when they marry?"
—Rana, Suq'Ata market fool




Citizens are free to do as they wish, within the confines of the Consulate's laws.
"I was not convinced you had a soul until I saw it for myself."
—Liliana Vess


The vedalken embed such urns in their living artifact creations.
In volatile times, a sense of certainty is in high demand.


"The Skirk Ridge has many wonderful things to discover—like escape routes."
—Foothill guide
"My people swore to protect Benalia to the end. It is battered, but yet stands, as do we."
The land chooses its own champions.

"How tragic that greed eclipses beauty."
—Seton, centaur druid



"It's a poor sort of memory that only works backwards."
—Lewis Carroll,
*Through the Looking Glass*
"The battle at Ganzan Pass was a testament to human endurance. The untrained and frightened group escaped three legions of kami, leaving more than their share of slain foes in their wake."
—*Great Battles of Kamigawa*

"Stand strong. We will reclaim the dawn."
To stand as a guardian of the sea, one must possess the resolve of a mounting wave.


"Humans use pigs to hunt for mushrooms, don't they? It's like that."
—Harak, Malakir bloodwitch
When the established order falters, what remains are ordinary people and their struggle to survive.
"I embrace all of Alara, Grixis as much as Bant. Let my former home call me traitor. I do this not for accolades, but because it is right."


He climbs a staircase of falling souls, fighting the continuous pull of the void.
Up and down,
over and through,
back around—
the joke's on you.







"Everything serves a purpose. Even you."
—Vorel of the Hull Clade
Those near the clock don't hear it anymore, but their every movement is in time with its ticking.
Atarka serving-goblins coat themselves with grease imbued with noxious herbs, hoping to discourage their ravenous masters from adding them to the meal.
The helix was the finest example of Mishra's campaign strategy: if he couldn't have Argoth, no one could.
His whips twist and tremble like living things, moved by the fury of the horde he commands.
Though she is rightly feared, there are relatively few tales of her deeds in battle, for few survive her raids.
Some ainok of the mountains are accepted among the Temur as trusted hunt-mates.
"Tell me . . . have you ever sung the Song of Blood?"
—Purraj of Urborg




"Your father was a dear friend to whom I owe much. He wanted me to look after you, to care for you should something happen to him."


The vedalken embed such urns in their living artifact creations.

"If yesterday was two days ago tomorrow, will the day after tomorrow be today or yesterday?"
—Temporal Manipulation 101 final exam, Tolarian Academy
Lymph, the fluid essence of blinkmoths, is prized by wizards for the rush of intellect it provides.

They chase tirelessly after the bone-carts that speed along the streets of the Plague Quarter.


There are medicines for all afflictions but idleness.
—Suq'Ata saying
Unpredictable as a storm and destructive as a tidal wave.



"Leadership, not numbers, determines victory."
—A Wu commander, before his 5,000 troops forced 15,000 Wei troops to retreat from Ruxu



"Through the blood of the wicked, we shall be redeemed. Let us pray."

The Underworld is anything but a resting place.
"All the sylvan secrets of this world are etched between my rings. The skinfolk's metal aberrations can rot between my roots."
—Colfenor, the Last Yew
"The bonds of loyalty can tie one to the grave."
—Crovax, ascendant evincar

"Tideshaping is more than creating a few new puddles."
"Some bend the law. I tie it into knots."

"It's the last thing we can call our own."
—Minhu, Mirran resistance

Urza was the first to understand that the war would not be lost for lack of power, but for lack of troops.
"We willingly trade with Kjeldor, but the peace we build must come from both our lands."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
Not all who remember Urza do so with fondness.



Selenia had hurt Mirri terribly, but injuries of the flesh could be treated. The wounds she had torn in Crovax's soul would never close.

Most smiths shape metal, but some prefer more delicate materials.
"Storms drove them westward to Ketaphos; wide plains shimmered in starlight.
Centaurs greeted them, offering gold-hued apples and grain-cakes."
—*The Callapheia*


"The perfection of the lotus reminds me of my hopes for this world . . . and my failures. I will not rest until I've atoned for them."
—Karn

A symbol of passion in indifferent times.

"Margaret has traveled with me to the end of the world and back."
—Hewen Frit, merchant
"We think of the naga as creeping cutthroats, slitherers in the swamps. But they are equally at home in the trees."
—Goton, Qal Sisma shaman
"I'll put my sword down only to die. And I don't plan on doing that today."
Some Golgari insects live for centuries—and they never stop growing.
Among the pirates of the Brazen Coalition, the only thing more dangerous than failure is success.
"Let all feel joy in pain."
—Rakdos
Ugin's magic reaches beyond the dragons. The clans have adapted it for war.
"Kill count? I lost track years ago."
As the ship approached, the jade totem rose high overhead. Power rippled. Eyes of stone glowed and crackled. Out hissed a breath of the world, and a windstorm came alive.
Hanna: "We must learn how they protect each other."
Mirri: "After they've done trying to kill us, all right?"
"It misses nothing and it has no sense of humor."
—Barvisa, courtroom scribe
"We are all inextricably linked, souls woven in tapestry."



As you hear it baying in the distance, you'll feel its breath on your neck.



A ray of hope in the darkest night.
The Eldrazi twisted in a direction that had no name, and a frontal assault became a panicked rout.
Urza always put Tocasia's lessons on resource-gathering to effective use.
"She knows every step of this coastline, both above and below the surface, and she has hideouts all along the way. She will get you there."
—Jori En, expedition leader

Saltfield nomads call a sudden storm a "whitemane."
Light creates shadow; light destroys shadow. Such is the transience of darkness.


"The fifth wind of ascension is Exalter, fulfilling Keld's destiny."
—*Keld Triumphant*

"Truth shines even in darkness. Those who march on the side of truth walk always in righteous light."

"Do not linger in such places, child. There the gwyllions dance. If they find you, you will join in their revels for eternity."
—Talara, elvish safewright

In the depths of Rootwater, salvage and sewage differ only in texture.

It's there when a seed sprouts, when gourds ripen on the vines, and when the reapers cut the grains under the Harvest Moon.
"Now the scaled ones rule Tarkir."
In Amonkhet's ever-shifting sands, nothing stays buried for long.
One thing the myr can't do is enjoy the scenery.
"It's OK. They're just elves."

Trained in the arts of stealth, the royal assassins choose their victims carefully, relying on timing and precision rather than brute force.
The Emperor is the greatest psyker in Human history. For thousands of years, he has sat immobile in a palace that spans a continent.
On the continent of Tazeem, rushing waters plunge through narrow canyons into mist-cloaked lakes.

Life runs wild amid the tanged branches.

I tell you, there was so many arrows flying about you couldn't hardly see the sun. So I says to young Angus, "Well, at least now we're fighting in the shade!"
"The timeless, tireless jaws of nature shall one day devour us all."
—Sildark, artificer of Omu
The Skelle raise scorn poles in conquered villages—cursed totems of wood and bone that sap survivors of physical strength and the will to fight back.
"I would be a fool if I taught you everything I know."
The rifts reach into infinite time streams, bringing the divergent products of alternate pasts into the present.
Gruul warriors never need to be stirred to battle. They need only to be shown where the battle is.
Sima Yi fought for four generations of the Cao family before his own grandson became emperor and united the three kingdoms.






Mung noticed a few clouds gathering in the sky. Perhaps today he could perform his "walking against the wind" routine.

Steel doors and iron bars are child's play for an Obscura operative.
"I have suffered a thousand lifetimes of agony on this wretched world. I've far less time to share with you, but I assure you, no less pain."
—Ob Nixilis


"Flame-wrapped, she dances a burning swath amid the clouds."
—Psemilla, Meletian poet





The dark opening seemed to breathe the cold, damp air of the dead earth in a steady rhythm.
She bears the greatest burden of all: that of knowing.

"I hope to meet Jaya Ballard someday. I think we'd get along."
—Chandra Nalaar
"Let's just broaden its surveillance lens."

"Let us remember brave Jarkeld and his troops, who perished in the Adarkar Wastes so long ago."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran Priest




To build Sorin's Haunted Mansion, every detail of Markov Manor was painstakingly recreated, from the floating laser ghosts to the robot space gargoyles.

Selesnya grows its ranks in more ways than one.
"No more fear. No more failure. No more death. No more!"
Titania rewards all who honor the forest by making them a living part of it.
The swarm seemed unmoved by the artificial slivers' destruction. "They clearly were not the leaders," Hanna cursed. "I guess we'll have to do this the hard way."



As the hedrons began to coalesce into colossal Eldrazi superstructures, the griffins were forced to seek new territory lest their aeries be crushed between the massive stone monoliths.

"For her, I would gladly die again."





Its graceful glide paints the ocean floor with strokes of luminescence.
"Most wise, most thoughtful, most powerful qadir," said the Gixian, "we offer whatever help we may give in your illustrious name."

Elves believe the hydra-god Progenitus sleeps beneath Naya, feeding on forgotten magics.
"Strength batters down barriers. Discipline ignores them."

Auriok soldiers craft their own weapons, forging a connection to the steel with each blow of the hammer.


"To be a successful cutthroat, you have to truly enjoy the work."

"All the power you have gathered for yourself, Liliana, I can take away."
—Nicol Bolas

"Fleshy, with just a hint of leather. A fine vintage."
"The efreet is a striding storm with a voice that crackles like fire."
—Qhattib, vizier of Amiqat


Spiteful geists rise from the muck of the Farbogs, eager to lure travelers to their doom.
The ties that bind can also strangle.


"We wield the fires of rage. War is our blood and destruction our birthright."
—Crimson creed
"Fate is not as fixed as you might think."

Once a fierce foe, she would become one of Madara's greatest protectors.

It waits with absolute stillness. One might think it a statue if it weren't occasionally seen chewing on its victims.
Some are born to rule. The rest are born to bow before them.

Bred as living shields, these slivers have proven unruly—they know they cannot be caught.

". . . The magician drew a ring off his finger . . . , saying: 'It is a talisman against all evil, so long as you obey me.'"
—*The Arabian Nights*,
Junior Classics trans.
"Even your blade knows who will triumph here."
—Atraxa, Praetors' Voice


When an order for griffin barding comes in, blacksmiths prepare their forges for months of exacting work. They know griffins always detect imperfections and never haggle.
"I will go to any length to achieve my goal. Eternal life is worth any sacrifice."
—Zur the Enchanter

In its lair lies a carpet of bones.

"His companions are wise to follow him, for his foes dare not stand in his way."
—Zhiada, Dirgur protector


"Finally! It was worth the price to never have to fiddle with lockpicks ever again."
—Davvry Mineshadow, thief






"Every Planeswalker remembers the first time their mind touched the staggering vastness of the Multiverse."
—Kasmina


You arrive at Baldur's Gate with instructions to head straight to the heart of the rumor mill: the bakery.
As sharp as its bearer's words of faith.
"Strike," the fumes hiss. "Raise an empire with your ambition."
"You must shatter the fetters of the past. Only then can you truly act."
—Rem Karolus, Blade of the Inquisitors
Silent. Slithering. Sinister.


For Mittens, it was just another day at the beach.
"Fortunately, merfolk aren't used to opponents with feet."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*


"Unwavering and loyal, they represent stability in uncertain times."
—Rem Karolus, Slayer of Angels





"Wind is forceful, yet ephemeral. It can knock a dragon out of the sky, yet pass through the smallest crack unhindered."
—Jestus Dreya, *Of Elements and Eternity*
Sister to Sun Quan and wife to Liu Bei, Lady Sun often felt her loyalty to both tested.
From concept to paper to reality.
"Great Yawgmoth moves across the seas of shard and bone and rust. We exalt him in life, in death, and in between."
—*Phyrexian Scriptures*





While Lazav schemed and Niv-Mizzet researched, Trostani sought the future in the whispers of the past.

The sands of Amonkhet can be as much a boon as a bane. It depends entirely on which way the wind blows.
PRICELESS PIC PILFERED Painting Found Abandoned in Graveyard Merfolk Decry Wizards' Treatment


The smallest seed of regret can bloom into redemption.
Nicol Bolas gives power to those who will abuse it most.

For Mittens, it was just another day at the beach.

"Hold the line, for family and the fallen!"



Vampires know blood and the systems that carry it. And they know exactly where to strike to set it free.
When the clever counterfeit was accepted by the hive, Volrath's influence upon the slivers grew even stronger.
"Ooh, shiny! Let's pull off the chain and take her with us."
—Ukl, Gruul raider, last words
"It's not work if you enjoy it."

"If you work at sawing up carcasses, you notice how the joints fit, how the nerves are arrayed, and how the skin peels back."
—Ashnod, to Tawnos
"I don't like to think of myself as a pirate. I'm more like a stimulator of the local economy."

Other guilds demand tolls from those who travel their territories, but not House Dimir. It takes its share secretly, one coin purse at a time.

"We each have our own strengths, Radiant," Serra said with a sly smile. "If all of my people were like this one, who would carry your scrolls?"

The boar leads its rider to victory in battle, but it doesn't know how close it is to becoming the victory feast.
"Crack it open. Maybe it knows something we can use."
—Kara Vrist, Mirran resistance

"Shield yourself with faith. Arm yourself with silver."
—Slayer Kastinne

Many go to Mephidross in search of lost riches. Most end up as part of the cache.


"I recognize that headdress. This one was feared even by her fellow initiates."
—Samut
To the Sun Empire, any place where daylight brightens the jungle floor is sacred ground.

Forged by divine hands to wander mortal realms.
"Behold blessed perfection."
—Sheoldred, Whispering One
His is the fury of the wildfire, the boiling blood of the volcano. He fights you not because you've wronged him, but because you're there.

"Forward! Until the horizon is ours!"
—Khemses, charioteer

Viscerid dams may be of living creatures as well as bones and mud.


No single root feeds the forest.





The rifted multiverse became a sea of conflicting realities, each peopled by possible versions of every living being.

"Memory is a burden that wears at the soul as weather wears at stone."
—Crovax



"Soaring is wasted on the winged."
—Edric, Spymaster of Trest
Silent as fog and relentless as plague, it is wet, creeping death.


If you saw her, you'd go "AAAHHHH!"









It's always hungry, yet easily sated.



"So many oppose us, but we are the reed that bends without breaking."
Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.
"A great siege is a banquet to him; a long and terrible battle, the most exquisite delicacy."
—*The Seer's Parables*

After sampling many victims, the spider developed a preference for the undead and their accoutrements.
"It was a sight of pain and awe—a twisted forest, migrating across the salt plain in search of richer soil."
—Edahlis, greenseeker

"No matter how strong, an unarmed fighter is no more than a fool."
Its screeching is the sound of you losing your mind.

"I defy this world to try our defenses now. Send pterons and skycats. Send Vadrok!"
—Janae, Coppercoat architect


"The undead are not 'awakened.' They are evicted when there is no room left in the pit for more bodies."
Her writhing, boneless movements are unsettling to humans, but hypnotic to her serpent brood.
"It's always my brightest students who make the worst decisions."
—Shaile, Silverquill dean

"We hold sacred the powers of light and life. Truth and honor are our greatest weapons."
—Alabaster creed


A single festercreep isn't alone. It's already an infestation.

"It's actually quite simple, but since you've only recently begun to walk upright, it may take some time to explain."
—Jace Beleren, to Garruk Wildspeaker

"What was once formed by masons, shaped by smiths, or given life by mages, I will return to the embrace of the earth."


There are no soloists in the chorus of Selesnya.
The mere approach of an Abzan war beast is enough to send enemies fleeing in panic.

What is mana but possibility, an idea not yet given form?

Their fury scatters enemies like a pile of dry leaves.







"All of those Consulate safety measures undone with one simple tweak."


When you've got nothing, you might as well trade it for something else.
Nothing is sacred to the rats. Everything is simply another meal.
"The danger in cultivating massive plants caught the elves by surprise."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. III*
By the time the spider comes to slurp up its dinner, its victims have been partially dissolved by acidic silk.
As Krosa unleashed the peace in Kamahl, he unleashed the fury in Krosa.
Porter, cleaner, and bouncer all in one.
One eye open to see the truth of the world. One eye covered to gaze at the goddess within.
"From up here we can drop rocks and arrows and more rocks!" "Uh, yeah boss, but how do we get down?"


As magnigoth trees expanded across the sea into Almaaz and New Argive, it became clear Yavimaya's borders were never confined by its coastline.

"Do not concern yourself with my origin, my race, or my ancestry. Seek my record in the pits, and then make your wager."

"Thraben belongs to the living. I will not rest until it is cleansed."
"Finding a true heartstone is even harder than finding a true heart."
—Hanna
She'll sculpt goblins, saprolings, Marit Lage . . . though that one takes a *lot* of balloons.
"Before the war, we prayed to Kataki to sharpen our swords and harden our armor. Without his blessing our weapons are all but useless against the kami hordes."
—Kenzo the Hardhearted


"The Ancestor saved us for a purpose."
"Behind every devil's mayhem lurks a demon's scheme."
—Rem Karolus, Blade of the Inquisitors
"Why would I kill you all? Who then would be left to worship me?"


"Squall, gale, hurricane—it's all a matter of size . . . and price."
"My wandering mind has always been an asset."


"Zendikar has given us the weapons to wage war on the appropriate scale."
—Najiya, leader of the Tajuru
A dragon's death is almost as feared as its life. Old, dying dragons throw themselves into volcanoes, causing massive upheaval and widespread disaster.

"The volcanic winds make a maze of the skies of Jund. If we mean to invade, we must first learn their invisible paths."
"And through the drifts the snowy cliffs/ Did send a dismal sheen:/ Nor shapes of men nor beasts we ken—/ The ice was all between."/
—Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
"The old ways were for a winter world. We do what's best for us, not for the past. We are Keldons!"
—Grand Warlord Radha

"Awooo!"


One bone broken for every twig snapped underfoot.
—Llanowar penalty for trespassing
Its etchings tell the ur-golems' stories of an entity able to force life into a lifeless plane.
"Heed my words, traveler. Plagues, war, desolation . . . all mere hints of what is yet to come from Dominaria's vault of horrors."




"You don't find many old werewolf hunters."
—Paulin, trapper of Somberwald
"Some believe sandstalkers to be illusions; those with scars know better."
—*Zhalfirin Guide to the Desert*





"Yavimaya takes care of herself; the kavu are evidence of this. What does your Coalition offer that the forest cannot provide?"
—Jenson Carthalion
When outsiders interrupted the matca championship, things got ugly.
"A rare and fascinating phenomenon."
—Tamiyo
"We were not meant to have such terrible things. They should be left where we found them, if not destroyed!"
—Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi heretic
"Rage courses in every heart, yearning to betray its rational prison."
—Sarkhan Vol




"The faithful don't succumb to terror, nor are they ruled by passion. They adhere to order, for order is life."
—*Volume I, The Book of Faith*
He is devious and cunning, in both appearance and deed. Beware the Warbeard, for this brute bites as well as he barks!
The Keldons used the toxic vents in the cracked earth to bolster their home's defenses.
"The seas are vast, but the skies are even more so. Why be content with one kingdom when I can rule them both?"


The leonin of Oreskos are quick to take offense—not because they are thin-skinned but because they are always ready for a fight.

"Our death-arrows flew in high arcs towards the aven. And then . . . nothing."
—Coliseum guard
The Cho-Arrim believe in leading by example.



"Well? What are you waiting for? Let's not keep the buzzards waiting."


Bury old friends deeply, lest they return bearing worms.

Knights kept returning from Ogre's Pass wearing nothing but bruises, so they decided to just pretend it was on their side.


"Watch death wait / Wait, death, watch / Steal breath swiftly / but steal life slowly."
—Suq'Ata dirge
"A flash of the lightning, a break of the wave, He passes from life to his rest in the grave."
—William Knox, "Mortality"
"Yes, I think 'toast' is an appropriate description."
—Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
"These seeds waited faithfully for the sun to rise again. Now, their patience is rewarded."
—Wrenn
"Whoa there. Easy. We're just going to take a little detour."
The smallest seed of regret can bloom into redemption.

Yawgmoth's greatest joy came from watching one hero defeat another.
"Easy now, everyone. I'll take care of this."
—Nadaar
At night, the faeries steal dreamstuff for their queen. At daybreak, countless creatures wake weak and hollow.
"Don't just win the game. Win the crowd."
—Moriana, Mage Tower coach

There is a place apart from this world, a rift where pretense falls away and champions find their glory.

The blood of the demons quickened as their master rose over the battlefield. The blood of the angels also quickened: here was the chance to finally end the war started millennia ago.

His marvels of artifice pale in comparison to the developing machinery of his mind.
"That pigeon knows something, and we will find out what."
—X

The archers have a reputation for attacking without warning. They claim that the first arrow *is* the warning.
"I have become a gourmet of sorts. Each soul has its own distinctive flavor. The art is in inviting the right company to the feast."




Chainer's dark gift to a darker soul.
"Do not call the Balduvians barbaric. Their magic is as potent as it is primal."
—Zur the Enchanter
"Dragons are feared for their breath and their bite, but it is their wings that make them unconquerable. Bring them to earth, and they die like any other beast."
—Kassur, Sultai hunter
"There is no law of nature that I have not seen Illuna break. Makes you wonder what is truly possible, does it not?"
—Rielle, the Everwise

The Mardu all enjoy war, but only the goblins make a game of it.
"Swift as the wind and harder to catch— that's the Faeries for you."
—Daria


Fascinated by the lore of ancient struggles, the archaeologist searches incessantly for remnants of an earlier, more powerful era.





His name means "he who paints the earth red."
"Wanna see a neat trick?"


Cephalids specialize in lose-lose situations.
The drums of war stir the hearts of all who fight for righteousness.
"This research violates Consulate law."



Every Halo smuggler walks a razor's edge between untold riches and sudden disaster.




"Please accept this offering. I sincerely hope to leave my mace at my side."


Nature has forgotten its own rules.

Though its mind has long since rotted away, it wields a sword with deadly skill.


Long ago, the Auriok attempted peace with the loxodons. The leonin attempted war. Neither succeeded.

"It's rarely worth questioning where the mana comes from. Just be grateful."
—Jaya Ballard, task mage


Thus the longhall became a flathall.
"Through all the terrors we face, I hold on to the memory of the world before the Eldrazi came. I'd like to see that world again."
"Beauty to the eye does not always translate to the touch."
—Naimah, Femeref philosopher
"The blazekite is a simple concept, really-just a vehicular application of dragscoop ionics and electropropulsion magnetronics."
—Juzba, Izzet tinker



"Hard to starboard! Starb— Abandon ship! Abandon ship!"







Phyrexian artificers remove the flesh they no longer need and use it to bring their unholy creations to a greater semblance of life.

"Naga shed their scales. We wear ours with pride."
—Golran, dragonscale captain



Within the walls of the floating city, Saprazzan wealth is like Saprazzan water: abundant, free-flowing, and accessible to all.
"Dance, and bring forth the coil! It is an umbilical to Gaea herself, fattening us with the earth's rich bounty."

I didn't think Mammoths could ever hold a candle to a well-trained battle horse. Then one day I turned my back on a drunken soldier. His blow never landed; Mi'cha flung the brute over ten meters.


"Although armor and auras can be similar, the brains required to use them are worlds apart."
—Zilan, Makindi auramancer
"Living creatures seldom impress me. But I like this one."
—Uta Falkenrath
The stronger the will, the more bewitching the song.
"I have suffered a thousand lifetimes of agony on this wretched world. I've far less time to share with you, but I assure you, no less pain."
—Ob Nixilis




They only appear in emergencies, and emergencies never last long.



"Through the blood of the wicked, we shall be redeemed. Let us pray."
"Prepare to be boarded! Or don't. I'm coming over either way."


"Boggart blood disgusts me almost as much as the foul creatures themselves."
"Seeing a pack of these monsters hunt together, I'm at a loss to imagine the size of their prey."
—Adrian Adanto of Lujio
Venom is nature's way of redressing the imbalance between weak and mighty.


The armies paused, silent, as the warriors reflected on the sunsets of their youth.

Even after a false god tore the magic from Dominaria, power still radiated from the Mirari sword that slew her.
Generations of genetic weeding have given rise to the deviously cowardly Ironclaw clan. To say that Orcs in general are vicious, depraved, and ignoble does not do justice to the Ironclaw.
Goblins journey to the sacrificial peaks in pairs so that the rare survivor might be able to relate the details of the other's grisly demise.
"Let's play 'sled.' Here's how it works: you're the sled."



Where victors are commemorated and moments of glory immortalized.
"My specialty is theoretical universal limits and ways to circumvent them."
"I wonder how it feels to be bored."
—Jhoira, artificer

The bellow of a minotaur always translates to "charge."
"Swarms of the unhallowed claw at Thraben's gates! Do you still deny the end approaches?"






"When you give offense to heaven, to whom can you pray?"
—Cao Cao, quoting Confucius
He wages war wherever the wind carries him.





"As long as you are breathing, you always have something more to give."
—Valentin, Witherbloom dean
Some say the knowledge lost during the Ritual of Rebuking is returned through the well's waters.






Some took to their boats to escape the unfolding nightmare. The remains of their vessels now litter the shores of Nephalia.


They're dying left and right.
"Let no one say we did not fight until the last . . . ."
—Headstone fragment from a mass grave found in the Crimson Peaks
"Do not let yourselves fall now. Zendikar is depending on us—on you!"



The most feared of Azorius punishments is to be freed—sent back out into the world, stripped of all magical defenses.
"Don't worry, I can reach it."

"Zendikar is always angry, though I've never seen that anger so precisely directed."
—Nablus, North Hada trapper
The one thing the Gatewatch didn't expect to find on a plane ruled by Nicol Bolas was perfection.


"Our steeds need food, water, stabling. Theirs just need prey."
—Restela, Alaborn marshal
Before signing anything on Grixis, always read the fine print.



"Share your devotion with me."

Friends teach what you want to know. Enemies teach what you *need* to know.
"As it moved, the wurm's spines gathered up bits of flowstone, which took the shapes of dead villagers' heads. Each head spoke a single sound, but if taken together, they said, 'Alas for the living.'"
—Dal myth of the wurm
"Feldon's latest discovery appears to draw upon the same 'memories of the land' my wife studied. How I wish she could see it."
—Writings of Drafna
"Careful. Leave it running for too long and it'll turn the whole building into angels."
—Tawnos
"By thorn and by stone, we will fight to see the day when beauty returns to this world."
The tendrils of sorcery find easy purchase on the soft underbelly of dreams.
Where the wind meets the water, change is inevitable.
"You will learn to earn death."
—Volrath

Far from human eyes, birds flit between vivid blossoms in a hidden paradise.
"It was a strange morning. When we awoke, we found our trees transformed. We didn't know whether to water them or polish them."
—Pulan, Bant orchardist


"Death is my life's work."

The path to power is often paved with atrocities.
"Not all paths are found on the forest floor."


Fortunately, Hill Giants have large blind spots in which a human can easily hide. Unfortunately, these blind spots are beneath the bottoms of their feet.
Tawnos won fame as Urza's greatest assistant. After he created these warriors, Urza ended his apprenticeship, promoting him directly to the rank of master.

They envy the life-giving heat so much that they tear it from those who still possess it.
"The raging winds . . . , settling on the sea, the surges sweep, / Raise liquid mountains, and disclose the deep."
—Virgil, *Aeneid*, Book I, trans. Dryden

"To survive exceptional times we must adapt by exceptional means."
—Vannifar
"The great wurm bit down on me. Instead of being crunched bloody, I slid into the space where its tooth was missing. One tooth—a boon most potent, indeed."
—*The Tall Tales of Oleander*
His assistants calculate the amount of the tribute. He measures out the punishment for delinquency.
Her mount's hollow crest can produce a trumpeting warning that carries for miles, summoning more knights to her aid.

In life, they were a motley crew: farmers, lords, cutpurses, priests. In death, they are united in singular, benevolent purpose.
On the continent of Tazeem, rushing waters plunge through narrow canyons into mist-cloaked lakes.

Even more than carrion, they crave the last words of the dying.
"I used to joke that he had been exiled for being too smart. Now I know why he never laughed."
—Glissa Sunseeker

"Our unity revives our hopes."
The undisputed master of the mountains of Shiv.
"The hooves of the Raze-Boar will trample the weak—and their city—to dust!"
"Ach! Hans, run! It's the lhurgoyf!"
—Saffi Eriksdotter, last words
"From dust and light She coaxed forth an uncorrupted world. By Her grace we dwell here, free from suffering."
—*Song of All*, canto 11
For pest keepers, there's no sound more disheartening than breaking glass.

"Keep your distance. It may be broken, but it's far from benign."
—Stenn
"Trust me—the walls have more than just ears."
—Orcish spy


"If you see ghostly lights by the river, eat three twigs of marshroot to ward off kelpies."
—Kithkin superstition

The best thing about ogres is that they never try to sneak up on you.

"Your death will be a balm, your passing a welcome revision, and all will sigh with peace to know of your demise."
The future isn't sacred, but its speaker is.
"This air feels so heavy and thick. There are no winds to speak of. I fear the knowledge that comes from a place like this."
"If our foes will not listen to words, perhaps hooves and claws will make them take notice."
—Seton, centaur druid
"The Skyclaves are our inheritance."
It listens to all of their plans and plots creative ways to turn them to ruin.

The Curse of Wandering leaves only hatred.
No one welcomes his visit, yet all must grant him tribute.
"Accursed scarecrow! Sending folk in every direction is the same as sending them nowhere at all."
—Corliss the Wanderer
"Wear courage as your armor. Wield honor as your blade."
—Gerrard
A mercurial face sows distrust. Distrust reaps a lonely life.
Gorgons crave beautiful things: gems, exquisite amulets, the alabaster corpses of the petrified dead . . .

"Phyrexia's touch is painful to all but the blackest of hearts."
—Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen

Hope is born within.

"Not all paths are found on the forest floor."
Even what is lost beyond recall returns when coaxed by a dryad's hand.
'Twas in the bogs of Cannelbrae My mate did meet an early grave 'Twas nothing left for us to save In the peat-filled bogs of Cannelbrae.


Kasmina had encouraged the twins to apply. Strixhaven would test not only their magical potential, but also their character.


There was no reason to pray. This was already an act of the gods.

They're the chair-men of the bored.
What goes up, must come down.
Enter with merciful hearts. Exit with battle cries.


"I search for a vision of Zendikar that does not include the Eldrazi."
—Expedition journal entry

Oona's song is like a twisted dinner chime. All the faeries return home, but it is Oona who feasts—on the stolen dreams and rumors they serve her.
The massive dominate through might. The tiny survive with guile. Beware the tiny who become massive.





"We were ready for an attack from the front, sides, or back—but the mage hit us from below."
—Veteran soldier
"Give me enough refuse and mana and I will summon an ooze that can engulf all of Ravnica."
—Cevraya, Golgari shaman


"Joven, you're almost as good a thief as I. But Eron hates you even more."
—Chandler

"Stand still and try not to look like prey!"
—Skerk Hobnett, wilderness guide
"Can't a fella get a moment's peace around here?"

"The people of Akros must learn from our leonin adversaries. If we match their staunch ferocity with our superior faith, we cannot fail."
—Cymede, queen of Akros

"Your blood I'll use. Your skull I'll keep."



"Not again."
—Hans

"If you're not having fun, what's the point of living forever?"
Their stench was vile and strong enough, but not nearly as powerful as their hunger.


"This might hurt less if you don't fight so hard. But I doubt it."
"Over and over it rose. Over and over we fell."
—Ganda, Goma Fada deserter
"When you see a raven, head for the hills. It knows when the ghost-tide is headed in."
—Sved, fisherman of Nephalia

Chub toad, chub toad At the door. Run away quick Or you'll run no more.
—Traditional children's rhyme
The river is a powerful friend.


It cares more about preserving the herd's territory than about preserving itself.



"Your death will take a mere moment, but it will feel like an eternity."
—Vilis, Broker of Blood


Illusion steals reality from the unwise.
"Yes, I think 'toast' is an appropriate description."
—Jaya Ballard, Task Mage

It waits in the chill of the undercity, holding nameless secrets for those who dare to touch it.

Unable to touch items of value, he goes forth to steal secrets instead.
"When we're aloft, I love to lean over the *Weatherlight*'s railing and watch the patterns the griffins' shadows make on the clouds below."
—Sisay, Captain of the *Weatherlight*
Until more information could be gleaned about Niv-Mizzet's intentions, Lazav took every opportunity to stall his experiments.
During their endless travels, the mages of the Goma Fada caravan have learned ways to harness both life and death.
An early inspiration for Urza, Tocasia's Onulets contained magical essences that could be cannibalized after they stopped functioning.
"It's a win-win arrangement. I just happen to win the most."
—Duke Thalamra Vanthampur

"Try, if you must."

"Encase yourself in the most elaborate armor, and cower behind the heaviest shield. I would hate for you to feel helpless."
—Korig the Ruiner
The emotional echoes of dryad gatherings attract lost souls.

"Inner peace is wonderful, and worth striving for. Outer peace is much less important."
—Taelya, Lavabrink pyromage



"Family plots are so convenient."
—Cabal Patriarch
"Tincture of murkroot and lizard feet? Simple. One that doesn't taste like murkroot and lizard feet? I'm working on it."






"Just the thing for those pesky water mages."
—Jaya Ballard, task mage

"Bolas's power on this plane can't be absolute. Look around you."
—Nissa Revane

"If there is a fire that never ceases to burn, it surely lies in the maw of a dragon."
—Sarkhan Vol

"I want every last one of these tree-hugging, earth-loving, pointy-eared weaklings out of here. Now!"
"I prefer to weave my magic through oni blood, but yours will do in a pinch."

"The simplest way to plan ahead is merely to be ready for everything."
—Pontifex, elder researcher


"To make peace with the forest, make peace with me."
—Multani, to Urza
"I can't protect everyone here. But those I can, I will."
—Karn

"While most overworlders fortunately don't realize this, Gargoyles can be most delicious, providing you have the appropriate tools to carve them." —The Underworld Cookbook, by Asmoranomardicadaistinaculdacar



He wastes his amazing talents on proving how amazing he really is.
After lightning struck the cliffs, the ore became iron, the iron became steel, and the steel became greaves. The lightning never left.
Hurkyl's research at the College of Lat-Nam wasn't enough to stop the two brothers, but for centuries thereafter her spellcraft taught artificers restraint.
"A boon from the angels should never be cast aside."
—Manfried Ulmach, Chief Inquisitor
"Those who know only one path to victory can never hope to triumph."
—The Blind Seer



Strange times make for strange allies.
Memories burn with the brightest flames.








"I'm strong enough to survive alone. I'm smart enough to want companions at my side."


"The third stage of the illness: muscle aches and persistent cough."
—Phyrexian progress notes

Conjured from the bowels of hell, the fiery wall forms an impassable barrier, searing the soul of any creature attempting to pass through its terrible bursts of flame.


Necro-alchemists gained popular support during the Travails, when geist-fueled weapons helped defend towns against mad cultists and Eldrazi monstrosities.
"Wishing upon only one star seems like a failure of imagination."
—Vish Kal, Blood Arbiter

Don't step on the livelihood of other vendors, or they may step on you.
—Mercadian saying

"Sea Gate is gone, the Halimar basin empty. But rebuild the seawall and give these waters time, and they will fill the basin anew."


To conserve ammunition, Jhoira modified ancient Thran artillery cannons to fire gouts of pure Shivan lava.
"Do not underestimate the power of many against one."
—Sidar Jabari



One glamer leads him far from home. The next washes away his memory that home was ever anywhere but at her side.
"What good is loyalty to the crown if we are not also in service to those less fortunate? I fight for all of us."



The Mardu charge reflects the dragon's speed—and its hunger.
A few weed-choked gourd patches are all that remain of the proud, thriving farms that once blanketed the province.
"He can split a marshfly in two from halfway across the range."
—Onean sergeant


"We are all decaying, always in a state of near-death. One moment without breath and we begin to break down."
—Cevraya, Golgari shaman


"Swords, to me! We must engage their line to protect our archers and mages. Let no one fail this task!"

Twice brewed and twice blessed, the remedy restores both body and mind.
"I embrace all of Alara, Grixis as much as Bant. Let my former home call me traitor. I do this not for accolades, but because it is right."
Silence is an underrated hunting strategy.
The intricate dynamics of Rundvelt Goblin affairs are often confused with anarchy. The chaos, however, is the chaos of a thundercloud, and direction will sporadically and violently appear. Pashalik Mons and his raiders are the thunderhead that leads in the storm.
Abzan ancestors died to protect their Houses, and they protect them still.




"Avacyn emerged from the broken Helvault, but her freedom came at a price—him."
—Thalia, Knight-Cathar
"Eh, needs more toad."
—Gulistan, Simic biomancer



The old woman murmured, her last words too hoarse, too quiet to understand. The Envoy steeled herself, feebly disguising her grief: "The pilgrimage begins at dawn."


A fool knows no fear. A hero shows no fear.


Chaos renegades always seek to deface and destroy effigies of Imperial piety, replacing them with blasphemous symbols of the Ruinous Powers.





A mercurial face sows distrust. Distrust reaps a lonely life.

There is always a greater power.

Though many think of Wolves as solitary predators, they are actually extremely social animals. During a hunt they often call to each other, which can be quite unsettling for their prey.



"I see where you're going with that. I don't like it."
—Dierk, geistmage




"We all began in nature, and nature is where we belong."
I tell you, there was so many arrows flying about you couldn't hardly see the sun. So I says to young Angus, "Well, at least now we're fighting in the shade!"

Only the patrol's armor was found, so tainted with the acrid smell of sudden death that it could never be worn again.

"The Femeref look only to the Sun for healing; they have never truly understood life's cycle."
—Kifimbo, Shadow Guildmage

She shepherds mysteries and dust as others would a flock of sheep.
The wise always keep an ear open to the whispers of power.


The righteous light of Selesnya is channeled through the devout, striking out to blind the nonbelievers.



"A thankless job, and a death sentence besides."
—Eron the Relentless

One of the most ferocious and deadly gargantuans, the thoctar never sees its worshippers, but it often awakens surrounded by gifts and sacrifices.
"A double-edged sword lets you cut down your enemies with the backswing as well."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*
"Breathe deep, Dominaria. Breathe deep and die."
—Tsabo Tavoc, Phyrexian general

"The An-Zerrins have served me well, ever since I first killed them."
—Baron Sengir
"Our people are torn by infighting. Until the two sides reconcile, our laws can carry no meaning."


Knowledge brings the sting of disillusionment, but the pain teaches perspective.



"Protect our mother in her womb."

"Win together, die alone."
Waiting is for chumps with flimsy spacesuits.
The greatest masters of the craft abandon tools altogether, shaping metal with hand and mind alone.
"Go for the eyes, Boo!"


Ever since the ritual, Ryla didn't have an appetite at the dinner table, but her long walks in the forest always seemed to satiate her hunger.
Made from trout scales and crawfish whiskers, merrows' shimmering banners flash in the water like lightning.



"We have no need for these trinkets. We need only the strength of our swords and the virtue of our hearts."
—The Northern Paladin
At night he perfected his aim, shooting spiderwebs by starlight.
Not once in the history of Grixis has anyone died of old age.

Mirrodin has little weather, but it certainly has lightning.


She had not believed any shred of humanity remained in these writhing monsters until the twisted form of her partner appeared before her.
"I craved enlightenment, and Crucius's etherium opened my eyes. I would share my sight with you, but first you must believe."
"Let me unburden you of these fatuous hopes."

"The faerie plucked an acorn off the ground. One knight's quest was about to come to a bitter end."
—*Tales of the Fae*
"If you've never feasted on Zagoth terror-pig, I got the best price you'll find."
The Orzhov care not for repentance, only repayment.
If dragons excel at anything more than vanity, it is greed.
Whether incorporated into the structure of castles or admired as lone symbols, the obelisks stand for Bant's values of loyalty, honor, and truth.

"The so-called Barbarians will not respect us for our military might—they will respect us for our honor."
—Lucilde Fiksdotter, Leader of the Order of the White Shield
The oddsmakers hate him because every fight is a foregone conclusion. The crowd loves him for exactly the same reason.
"Serra guides our shots true. Also, I just tuned the cannons."
—Tiana
"The tiniest mouse speaks louder to me than all the festival crowds on Tin Street."
The elves thought of the myr as minor threats, just as the myr thought of the elves.
The crystal pulsed with the power of Teferi's planeswalker spark. Had Jhoira given him a blessing or a curse?

"May the light shine through me to guide the lost."


"You were saying?"
Knowledge itself is neither good nor evil. Just as the wrong book in the wrong hands could doom all existence, the same book in the right hands could save it.
You have to admire its enthusiasm.
Mages come from far and wide to bathe in its wisdom.




Bits of the missing agent were discovered in various alleys across all three boroughs.
Any being that harms them quickly learns its lesson.
We had taken refuge in a small cave, thinking the entrance was too narrow for it to follow. To our horror, its gigantic head smashed into the mountainside, ripping itself a new entrance.




On the continent of Tazeem, rushing waters plunge through narrow canyons into mist-cloaked lakes.

"As a child, I slept with a cloth over my face, to hide from the spirits that might pull the air from my lungs."
—Mosi, Femeref weaver
"So sorry, but per our waiver, we're not responsible for 'things happening.'"
It provides what every discerning mage requires—time to think.

Some fiendish mage had created a horrifying wall of living flesh, patched together from a jumble of still-recognizable body parts. As we sought to hew our way through it, some unknown power healed the gaping wounds we cut, denying us passage.







"Few can coax the creatures within the magma to be cooled and take form."
—Koth of the Hammer

Death can wait.
Despite its diminutive name, Gnat Alley is the longest street in Ravnica. Mile after twisting mile, it threads its way among the broader, safer thoroughfares like a parasite.
Crime sometimes makes unlikely allies into lifelong friends.


"My criticism of the Izzet is that their impulse for learning seems too much like impulse and too little like learning."
—Trigori, Azorius senator
Few who encounter the strange, human-like grove leave once the lilting chorus of the dryads reaches their ears.


The dead know lessons the living haven't learned.

When its smoky plumes light Naya's sky, every creature from the smallest pip fawn to the largest rannet heeds the warning.
"That Rhino would fetch us a tidy sum, Joven. Perhaps it's time to make it ours."
—Chandler
Cute as a mutton.

"I was called to this world of steel, and it will be my steel that answers."
—Elspeth
"Careful near those pretty glowing plants. What do you think they feed on?"
—Talin, Underdark guide
Too often, some self-described genius comes up with a "labor-saving device" that ends up creating far more work.

If an elf can dream it, a dwarf can build it, and a gremlin can eat it.


"Wind is forceful, yet ephemeral. It can knock a dragon out of the sky, yet pass through the smallest crack unhindered."
—Jestus Dreya, *Of Elements and Eternity*



The rod is a relic from ancient times . . . cruel, vicious, mean-spirited times.




Out of the blackness and stench of the engulfing swamp emerged a shimmering figure. Only the splattered armor and ichor-stained sword hinted at the unfathomable evil the knight had just laid waste.

When you feel a rumble in the ground, hold perfectly still. One sound will bring the hellion.


"Impress me."



Disillusioned with the Imperium, the population of Chancer's Vale turned to other, hungrier powers for meaning.






Made from the clay of burial mounds, the face paint of the priests is a sign of their respect for those whose rest they interrupt.
"Approach my tower on bended knee or depart from it as ash upon the wind."
—Gadwick, the Wizened

"This device was commisioned by a king who desired peace. Unfortunately, the royal artificer was also the king's jester."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator




For a ghoul, every village is a buffet and every disaster is a reunion.


"What are they complaining about? It's not like axiomatic leyline paratrigonometrics is hard."

Root systems in Mwonvuli twist through currents of mana rather than soil.
Do the glowing trinkets show it the way home, or do they set a twisted path for someone else to follow?

"Organization is often undervalued but rarely unjustified."
—Frasio, royal archivist


"At some point, every trapfinder will lose a hunk of flesh. It's just a question of how much—and whether it'll grow back."
—Arhana, Kazandu trapfinder





The lacerators cut themselves before each hunt. They must feed before the sun rises or bleed to death.



In his final moments, Kefnet reached into the minds of those around him, desperate for logic within the consuming chaos.
As eons passed, the rock wore away, revealing the rich colors at the mountain's heart.




"On vile wings and bloody wind, the swarm will rise."
—Skyclave inscription


"I used to describe something stable as 'rock solid.' So much for that expression."
—Gerrard of the Weatherlight
She wished for gold, but not for the strength to carry it.






I heard their eerie howling, the wolves calling their kindred across the frozen plains.
"You always have a choice. That doesn't mean you always have a good choice."
—Alubri, Guul Draz gatekeeper
"Such lesser creatures must be purged from the sky. What use do they have but to help channel the lightning of our mighty dragonlord?"
—Gvar Barzeel, Kolaghan warrior

Rainclouds don't last long in Shiv, but that doesn't stop the lightning.

"Death is no excuse for disobedience."
—Liliana Vess
As Dakkon forged the Blackblade for Geyadrone Dihada, he unwittingly forged himself into her schemes.

"Argivia's walls may run on powerstones, but its real power comes from its people."
—King Darien XLVIII
"Molten earth has no anger of its own. Only by infusing it with your own rage can the magma seethe and take shape."
—Koth of the Hammer

Snaking remnants of nature directed by a body of thought and progress, the oracles embody all that is Simic.
Scholars had puzzled for centuries over the ruins at Tal Terig. Its secrets had always lived within one rune-carved head.

"Only the most sophisticated inventions can survive nature's unsophisticated motivations."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator
The fae raised the turtle from a tiny hatchling. They taught it whom to ferry—and whom to drown.

"Rats and jackals feast in his swath, but even they will not walk with him."
—Mangara
To be king, Numsgil did in Blog, who did in Unkful, who did in Viddle, who did in Loll, who did in Alrok. . . .
"Here."
"Strike," the fumes hiss. "Raise an empire with your ambition."
She follows the old tributaries built when merrows still shaped the tides.
"It keeps some out, yes. It also keeps others in!"
—Grandmother Sengir
It glides on silent wings across the midnight sky, and a dread host rises to follow.

A savage hunter with a prince's bearing.
His soldiers etch his words on the insides of their shields, their inspiration always in sight during battle.


"When the whole world is crazy, it's important to find something you can rely on."



"I would be a fool if I taught you everything I know."



There are no safe paths through the Trial of Strength.

"Once past the stony exterior, the meat is exquisite and can be stuffed with thallids or simmered in a broth of manticore venom."
—Asmoranomardicadaistinaculdacar
*The Underworld Cookbook*
The parklike Cabaretti grounds offer rest, food, and the perfect place to shake off a tail.


If you find yourself and a friend being chased by a king cheetah, you have but one chance: Trip your friend.
—Suq'Ata wisdom




Panic spread like wildfire as the demons of Immersturm poured into Bretagard, slaughtering as they came.



Sun Quan's long and successful rule in the years 199 to 251 was due to his ability to choose and foster talented advisors and generals.

It traps an explosion within its stony skin.





"Lord Bolas has shown me how each miserable little life holds untold resources."


A power vacuum for the Azorius. A keepsake for Vraska.

"My family protects all families."
"Fly us higher, out of its storm."
—Sisay, captain of the *Weatherlight*
The touch of Serra's angels bears hopes aloft and empowers noble causes.

The demon Griselbrand dared to stand against Avacyn, earning him the loathing of thousands and the admiration of a few.
"Controlling time ensures you need never look impulsive again."
—Teferi

"Over time, Konda grew ever more suspicious, fearing even his most loyal allies were being manipulated by unseen hands."
—*The History of Kamigawa*
Its root system spans the entire floor of the jungle, making eradication impossible.
Only the Eldrazi mind thinks in the warped paths required to open the hedrons and tap the power within.


Frozen in fear, the goblins stared upward at the circling hunter—and were promptly eaten by its diving mate.

Dedicated to the principles of Tourach, members of the Order of the Ebon Hand demonstrated their devotion with grisly rituals.
"Bind me to thee, my soul to thine. I am your servant and your slave. Blood for blood, flesh for flesh, Leshrac, my lord."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"Spread out, you idiots! Spread out!"
—Marsden, party leader, last words
"They are quick to offer advice, those whose mistakes doomed them to undeath. How can I not listen to the wisdom of failure?"
—Ratadrabik of Urborg
"Ha, banishment? Be merciful, say 'death,' For exile hath more terror in his look, Much more than death."
—William Shakespeare, *Romeo and Juliet*

"I fight for my daughter, who may not set foot on a battlefield for many years. Remember who you fight for."
"Pleased to meet you, Seven."
"Choose your next words carefully. They will be your last."
—Phage the Untouchable
It knows nothing of Eldrazi or Planeswalkers, just that there are new intruders in its territory.

It bends not light but mana, aligning its chaotic currents into the sharp angles necessary for the mystic's purposes.


"Some nezumi became as skilled in the samurai arts as the humans and kitsune. Yet no lord would have them, so they sold their swords to the highest bidder."
—*The History of Kamigawa*
"Crush them!"
—Borborygmos


The Ulvenwald makes no allowances for youth. Today's newborn is either tomorrow's hunter or tomorrow's lunch.

"Pray that night is upon us, for if this twilight is the work of the Necrons, we are all dead men."
—Address by Lieutenant Krakow prior to the Bloodmoon Massacres
"To achieve what none have achieved before, one must dare what none have dared before."
A few weed-choked gourd patches are all that remain of the proud, thriving farms that once blanketed the province.
"The guilds each believe its way is right, but their ways only bring blood to Ravnica's streets and tears to Ravnica's families."
War is a dance. And they're looking for partners.


Some fiendish mage had created a horrifying wall of living flesh, patched together from a jumble of still-recognizable body parts. As we sought to hew our way through it, some unknown power healed the gaping wounds we cut, denying us passage.



Made of bone and boiled in blood, a Rakdos signet is not considered finished until it has been used as a murder weapon.
He can calculate interest to six decimal places even in the midst of a deadly duel.
"Hold on tight, little one. I'll get you to safety."

Kyren goblins always speak in questions and never allow wrong answers.
"It's easy to get taken in by the spectacle, to enjoy a bit of naughty amusement. But make no mistake: the Cult of Rakdos is a danger."
—Tajic

"Maybe next time."
"So the vulture said to the griffin, 'You gonna eat that?'"
—Azeworai, "The Ugly Bird"




The clearest commands are practical examples.


"Body and spirit are sworn enemies. They will take any excuse to be rid of each other."
—Tariel, Reckoner of Souls

Initially bred for sacrifice, the Thrulls eventually turned on their masters, the Order of the Ebon Hand, with gruesome results.
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. II*

The mysterious purpose of two of the rings had eluded Esper mages—until now.



In desperation the soldier prayed to Phenax, begging for the power to cheat the gorgon's gaze.
"Better to let the sword go than to lose the arm with it."
—Captain Lannery Storm
"Attempts to revive this ancient species have not been entirely successful, but results indicate potential for future development."
—Riptide Project researcher
Its breath is a gale. Its roar is a volcano. Its anger tears soul from flesh.
"Specimen 211 examination report. Observation: graft sublimation incomplete. Result: death. Prepare specimen 212."
"Our friends of the forest take many forms, yet all serve the will of Freyalise."
—Laina of the Elvish Council
"How can we outrun the sky?"
—Hadran, sunseeder of Naya
"When the air burns, only death breathes deep."
—Bogardan mage
"There is elegance in all the Ojutai do—even their killing."
—Kirada, Silumgar enforcer

Every once in a while, when they aren't getting incinerated in lava, crushed under rock slides, or devoured by dragons, goblins experience moments of unmitigated glory in battle.

"See, the land itself raises an altar to the ascendancy of nature."
—Mayael the Anima
Zendikar's seas are deeper than anyone can fathom.
What it lacks in backbone, it makes up for in cruelty.
"Living creatures seldom impress me. But I like this one."
—Uta Falkenrath
Land charred black, rivers boiled, Crops and wells alike despoiled, Mountains leveled, forests felled— Footprints of the beasts of Keld.
"Ulamog stood before us at Sea Gate, ready to succumb . . . and then Kozilek arose. Whatever hope I had for our world died."
—Vandri, Kalastria emissary


An accessory in every sense of the word.
As Serra was to learn, the peace and sanctity of her realm were as fragile as glass.
A pegasus chooses its rider, bearing the worthy into the clouds and tossing all others to the ground.

"The solution can hide for only so long."
—Urza







It turns prey into predator.

Phyrexia wastes nothing. Its food chain is a spiraling cycle.
Having no interest in the greater conflict, the trolls continue to prey upon whatever wanders into their domain.

"When the beast cloaks itself in the mighty oak, what good is a bow? When the oak wraps itself around the snarling beast, what good is a hatchet?"
—Dionus, elvish archdruid
Debts to rakshasa linger beyond death.

"The bear is never cautious—which is why it wasn't born a human."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight*



The Curse of Wandering leaves only hatred.
"Those who died in battle deserve their rest."


"Drakes? Bah! Things that breathe don't interest me. It breathes *fire*, you say? Well, that's a different story!"
—Zataz, Izzet clockwork artificer
After the Foundry Street riot, Arrester Hulbein tried to ban bludgeons. Which, inevitably, resulted in another riot.
"Impress me."

Small talk is a dying art.
Invented in Mishra's earlier days, the rack was once his most feared creation.

"I gazed once into that light. Now it burns in my mind, forever denying me rest."
—Riku of Two Reflections
For the first time in his life, Grakk felt a little warm and fuzzy inside.

Autonomy is only skin deep.

"To be a successful cutthroat, you have to truly enjoy the work."



Enter those who are starving and sick. You are welcome among the Swarm when the rest of Ravnica rejects you.


All suns must set.

The idols were forged during the time of the Khanfall, when the dragons came to rule Tarkir and its people aligned themselves with the five dragonlords.
The Izzet mage knew she would neither get her thermoinverter back nor have the satisfaction of exploding it herself.

Astride the bucking creature, Gribble hurtled down the mountainside while his Grotag brethren cheered. It was at that moment that the legend of the Skrill Tamer was born.

"Keep your chain mail, warrior. I have my own form of protection."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest
The seat of Belzenlok's power, the Stronghold serves as the gathering place for the Cabal as their dark influence spreads from Urborg.
"Prayers will curdle on the tongue and be heard by rotting ears."
—Minaldra, the Vizag Atum






"The answers are here. This is the way through the trial."

"I'll have just the right tool for the job!"
"Geralf, must you always whine? I agreed to nothing. I'll raise ghouls anytime I wish."


Long after death, the spirits of the Disowned continue to seek redemption among their Abzan kin.


"It's always my brightest students who make the worst decisions."
—Shaile, Silverquill dean
Mercadia's Kyren goblins are the opposite of Dominarian goblins: they're smart and cowardly.
Made of bone and boiled in blood, a Rakdos signet is not considered finished until it has been used as a murder weapon.
They're the chair-men of the bored.

After five thousand years, the nightmare returned.
Driven away by his living kin, he wanders mourning through the wilderness, seeking the dead city of Asphodel.
These beings embody the essence of true heroes long dead. Summoned from the dreamrealms, they rise to meet their enemies.
This invention shows why Ashnod was feared by her troops as well as her foes.


"Even a dragon is humble as a kitten if it thinks itself a slave."

"Get the sylex to Urza at any cost. Tell him to fill it with memories of the land."
—Ashnod, to Tawnos
Dedicated to the principles of Tourach, members of the Order of the Ebon Hand demonstrated their devotion with grisly rituals.






"Through me the rage of Tilonalli burns twice as bright."

"The Spirit Crafters sing of all our people. They sing of those lost, of those found, and of those who are yet to be."
—Onatah, Anaba Shaman
"In this blessed structure let the very walls baptize themselves in the blood of intruders."
—Stronghold architect, journal

"Such rage," thought Vhati, gazing up at the thunderhead from the *Predator*. "It is Greven's mind manifest."
Moving without sound, swift figures pass through branches and undergrowth completely unhindered. One with the trees around them, the Dryads of Shanodin Forest are seen only when they wish to be.

Built in honor of Alara's creatures, the ziggurat vanished long ago. When Progenitus awakened, the temple emerged again.
"Through every verdant field, every bough that hangs heavy with fruit, Karametra shows her love."
While most in Paliano seek fame through favor, he'll settle for infamy through blood.






"There is no nobler creature in all of Terisiare."
—General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox



"This creature has innate perceptiveness. It knows when to rise and when to vanish into the tides."
—Jestus Dreya, *Of Elements and Eternity*
Part prison, part home.





"And if this works, Tawnos is gonna let us build the full-sized version!"
—Tergel, goblin explosioneer
All are welcome.


"Countermagic is a simple process of breaking matter into its elementary particles."


"He displays a perverse charisma fueled by avarice. Highly dangerous. Recommend civil sanctions."
—Agmand Sarv, Azorius hussar

Each spell is an intricate tapestry, and Kira is the great unraveler.

"Holy places are no longer sanctuary from death, and death is no longer sanctuary from anything."
—Thalia, Knight-Cathar
"Even if they're hunting for sleeper agents, who looks twice at a bird?"
—Rona



Water calls to water, and the world is left exhausted and withered in its wake.
"Thunder broke the brittle silence over the Araba. A surge of raw energy lifted the soldier's body into the air and briefly, in the heart of the flash, he saw the face of a god."
—*Great Battles of Kamigawa*


When the defenses around Lurenbraum Fortress faltered, the Crimson Ballroom received some unexpected guests.

"These kids today with their collector numbers and their newfangled tap symbol. Twenty Black Lotuses and twenty Plague Rats. Now that's *real* Magic."

They dive screaming on defensive lines, sowing chaos before the main assault begins.
"I do not miss Jukai Forest. It is not my home. My home is Kamigawa, its people my family. Wherever I set my pack and rest my head, I am home."





"Do we know what we're doing? Yes—the will of Freyalise."
—Laina of the Elvish Council

Entry 855: There's more to Avacyn's madness . . .




Panic spread like wildfire as the demons of Immersturm poured into Bretagard, slaughtering as they came.
"We have defied fate. Our destinies are our own."



"It has been my experience that disasters like to strike in pairs."


The flame of anger is hard to douse once lit.

Your thoughts are no longer your own.
Threefold were his crimes, doubled were his pleas, singular was his fate.

The merging of the spirit and material realms has resulted in some unusual friendships.


What wizards fear most is losing their minds.



"Let's start fresh, shall we?"


"As one, nature lifts its voice to tell you this: 'No.'"



The scent of magic can rob you of your senses, blinding you to the world.
"Know one part of the name, obsession begins. Know two parts, paranoia sets in. Know three parts, madness descends. Know all, and only the kami know what will become of you."
—Lady Azami

"Lost in the woods" is an optimistic way to describe a villager's disappearance. "Found in the woods" is frequently more appropriate.


"One day I woke up and knew I had nothing left to teach her. So now I ride on her shoulders and follow where she leads."
—Gustin, wildbonder




The shaman looked at the world through Ghalta's eyes and understood that everything else was his prey.


"No more fear. No more failure. No more death. No more!"



From Tin Street to the Outcast Mansions, she walks unbidden and unbound, her graceful silence never shaken by the riot of city life around her.
The choice isn't whether to eat, but when to stop.


Anyone can destroy a continent. Few have the vision to rebuild one.
"Follow her footsteps and she will show you the way."
—Itzama the Crested


"By fate or by will, every reign must come to an end."
—Kethis, the Hidden Hand
"The light of beauty protects our journeys through darkness."
Some mages do their best work in solitude. Others do their best work creating it.

The fatal flaw in every plan is the assumption that you know more than your enemy.



"This 'standing windstorm' can hold us off indefinitely? Ridiculous!" Saying nothing, she put a pinch of salt on the table. With a bang she clapped her hands, and the salt disappeared, blown away.

In the rich jungles of Yavimaya, bright colors are the perfect camouflage.

Though those who study are as many as the hairs on an ox, those who succeed are as rare as unicorns' horns.
—Chinese proverb




Nature twists knots stronger than any rope.

Desmera blinded her seers so that her beauty would be the last image burned in their memories. The act only deepened their insight.
At the battle of Chang'an, Ma Chao defeated the two generals Cao Cao sent to guard the pass but was forced to flee when Cao Cao's trickery turned his own ally against him.

Alarans commemorated its appearances with new holidays bearing names like the Great Cataclysm and the Fall of Ilson Gate.


"Control them? No. I gird them in armor and let them loose."
—Yacha, Otepec huntmaster
The land drank power from the Mirari as though it had thirsted forever.

"Petrifying gaze, deadly fangs, knifelike dorsal spines, venomous saliva . . . Am I missing anything? . . . Toxic bones? Seriously?"
—Samila, Murasa Expeditionary House

"What? Why would it need a cooling unit?"
"Buying old, worn-out junk. Selling marvels of real value."

"For the lands you have lost and the beauty that remains, for freedom and the future, we must hold nothing back!"
—Gideon Jura



Ivold gasped in surprise. Either a very strange insect had crawled onto one of the lenses or he was seeing geists at last.
"Man is a beast and it is good that fear fills him."
—Nagash, Supreme Lord of the Undead



"Wake up, my friends! There are deeds to be done and treasures to be won!"
"The brood lineages unfolded across the world, each patterned after one of three progenitors, each a study in mindless consumption."
—*The Invokers' Tales*
Every strike of the smith's hammer infuses a sword with the determination of its creator.

"The humans are useful in their way, but they must be commanded as the builder commands the stone. Be soft with them, and they will become soft."
—Radiant, archangel
"We are all decaying, always in a state of near-death. One moment without breath and we begin to break down."
—Cevraya, Golgari shaman



"You never know what's going to be in goblin tunnels. Even in the best case, there will still be goblins."
—Sachir, Akoum Expeditionary House
"Brute force can sometimes kick down a locked door, but knowledge is a skeleton key."

The spires of Ravnica are no different from the tall trees of other planes. The elves navigate and protect them just the same.



The first explosion that didn't excite goblins.


You'll never miss what you never had.
Some spirits mourn. Others terrorize.



Fallen Phyrexians were transmuted into elementals by Gaea long ago, but Yavimaya's other inhabitants still regard them with unease.
"We are not an empire, and I am not a queen. But I speak with the shout of the rivers and the whisper of the clinging mist."
"My family protects all families."
Seeking the company of plants ensures that your wits will go to seed.

Dovin ticked the Planeswalkers off on his fingers: himself, Domri, Kaya, Ral, Vraska . . . and Bolas made an even six.



"We have been patient. We have planned our attack. We are ready . . . *now*."
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves

"I will carve my people's vengeance on the face of Phyrexia."

A single seed unleashes a flurry of growth.


"One day the mountain's fire will rise up to burn away our chains and end this age of oppression."
—*The Molten Prophecy*

The worst part isn't the pain, or the smell, or even the fear of death. It's hearing the clatter of bone on stone and knowing the bones are yours.

When the Boros Legion attacks, swiftblades enter the fray first. They pick off the archers and mages, softening the enemy front before the flame-kin and giants go in.
Inner conflict can defeat a soldier more quickly than any army.
Attracting a dragon's attention may be the last mistake you make.

"Catch me if you can."


When tempers run high, it's easy to lose your head.
"Give me a sturdy rope over the advice of any so-called expert. I can thread the dark wilds better than anyone."




Not every cage is made of bars.
The already spectacular views from the towers of the College at Lat-Nam are sometimes enhanced by glimpses of drakes diving into the ocean to devour small sharks.







Gerrard realized that the helpless woman they'd rescued from Rath was nothing of the sort.
Despising his siblings as insults to his line, he finds and devours each in turn.
There were no tombstones in orochi territory. Slain warriors were buried with a tree sapling, so they would become a part of the forest after death.






"It helps pass the time until you die."
—Grandmother Sengir
She'd have a fearsome reputation if she left any survivors.
"They're not your friends; they despise you. I'm the only one you can count on. Trust me."

"I didn't survive that crash just so I could fall to the likes of you."

The last thing to go through the mogg's mind was its teeth.
"No ready! No aim! Just fire!"
—Scarback Plagg, orcish captain

Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.
Gold buys death. Death earns gold.
"What? No, that's ridiculous! Of course the rat doesn't work for the park. I've never seen it before in my life!"
—Monoxa, midway manager




After making the Peach Garden Oath, the three brothers raised an army of 500 youths to fight the Yellow Scarves rebellion.
Lurking beneath the murky waters of Ixalan's rivers, sailbacks can rip a meal off the shore in the blink of an eye.



Cities offer tribute to Ephara and carve her image into their walls, imploring her to protect them from the dangers of the wild.


"Result 752: Rapid mass redistribution.
"Result 753: Calamitous reverse synthesis.
"Result 754: Acute disarrayment."
—Izzet research notes

It keeps the upper reaches of the forest free of every menace . . . except for the spider itself.




Gryffid scowled at the sky. A perfect day for the hunt tainted by clouds. He wished them gone. High above, the clouds looked down, scowled, and made a wish of their own.


Those caught attempting to escape the Underworld spend the rest of their existence trapped in the Mire of Punishment.
The soul sheds light, and death is its shadow. When the light dims, life and death embrace.
—Nantuko teaching

Mages come from far and wide to bathe in its wisdom.
Watch the skies.
The Mukotai Reckoners specialize in stealth and subterfuge.
The true strength of nature is not the raging storm or the charging rhino, but the inexorable vitality of life.
"Awaken that which was never asleep."
—Spellbomb inscription



As a rite of passage, Kipamu youths taunt razorbacks with long sticks . . . then flee.


"You want to know your enemy? Look at your feet while you trample him."
—Tahngarth of the *Weatherlight*

"The fate of one is shared by all."

"Dawn-kissed, he nourishes the golden grain."
—Psemilla, Meletian poet

"Choices belong to those with the luxuries of time and distance. We have neither. I recommend we proceed with the plan to destroy all shrines of the kami."
—Lady Azami, letter to Sensei Hisoka



"CONGRATULATIONS. IT IS A CLOWN."



"Every Silumgar blade carries the blessing of our dragonlord."
—Xathi the Infallible

"Make way! It's time for the final act!"


"My rule persists beyond death itself."
The Keldons used the toxic vents in the cracked earth to bolster their home's defenses.



"I came seeking a challenge. All I found was you."
—Zurgo, khan of the Mardu
"Wait . . . did you fellows hear something?"
The impact sent the soldiers scattering—then something came out of the crater.
"Divine gifts are granted to those who are worthy."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest
Silent. Slithering. Sinister.
"What he doesn't burn, he smashes."
—Captain Wellis, ogre wrangler
Punchy was programmed to do two things: punch tickets and love punching tickets.
Occupancy of the den changes from night to night as boggart gangs fight for control of a place they aren't willing to simply eat.

Old power finds new purpose.
It seeks those who act with kindness and offers friendship.
When asked how many paths reach enlightenment, the monk kicked a heap of sand. "Count," he smiled, "and then find more grains."
The trees pull water from deep underground, filling the forest for miles.
As you explore the slums of the Outer City, you keep hearing rumors of a den of werewolves in the caves below Dusthawk Hill.

"She is a theme of honor and renown, ...Whose present courage may beat down our foes."
—William Shakespeare, *Troilus and Cressida*
"Every choice alters the path of fate."
—Sarkhan Vol

"You know that secret? The one that wakes you up at night in a cold sweat? The one you think no one else in the world knows? Well, guess what."
It bites the hand that leads it.







"We help our Southern Order comrades as much as we can. But the Cabal's insidious influence spreads, dividing our forces and leaving new arrivals to fend for themselves."
—Commander Eesha



"The tiniest mouse speaks louder to me than all the festival crowds on Tin Street."
"I shape my weapons from the fears of my enemies."
—Chaeska, Keeper of Tresserhorn
Those with knowledge are wise to listen to those with imagination.



On Bant, a sigil is both a prize of honor and a bond of duty. The one who bears it may be called to fulfill that charge at any moment.
Ranger wisdom dictates that when fleeing from a moss-beast, you must stay calm, find your bearings, and run south.


"Rely too much on your weapons and watch your dreams shatter in your hands."
—Rhonas, god of strength

It hides the face and protects the soul.
"Sorry I burned down your village. Here's some gold."

To a siegehorn, there is no such thing as a dead end.


Fail to respect the forest and you will fertilize it.
Incluso los báloths le temen cuando es su hora de comer.
"Hear that? Those notes mean we've arrived at Sunhome! Let our allies' hearts soar and our enemies' hearts shatter at the sound!"
—Klattic, Boros legionnaire
"I am the simplifier, the root that drags all artifice to earth."
—Seal inscription

"On the field of honor, a soldier need have no fear."


It was made for battle, but that doesn't mean it's unsophisticated.

"I can think of no greater punishment than answering your question in full."
—Lazav

In nature, not a single bone or scrap of flesh goes to waste.





Without Vantress's knowledge, the realm would lose itself in darkness.
Eidren's hunts are dangerous affairs. All dread the inevitable recounting of those who died while flushing out his prey.


"In a daze, I woke and looked upon the battlefield, where I could swear my dreams were laying waste to the enemy."
—Letter from a soldier
Whether you'll fit in isn't up to you at all.
"Let the rest of Ravnica sneer. One way or another, they all end up in the undercity."
—Jarad

The deeper the wood, the greater its strength.


"Be careful in your hunt. The clever little creature can steal your wards and lead you right into the werewolf's den."
—Britta, midwife of Gatstaf
"Your signet is no symbol of power. It marks only your need for numbers to aid you. What do you do, guild-rat, now that you face my blade alone?"

"I confer with Death itself. What could you possibly do to injure me?"
—Lord Dralnu

The first searchlights were given as gifts, symbols of cooperation, to the emissaries present at the signing of the Guildpact.
To know the battlefield is to anticipate the enemy. To know the enemy is to anticipate victory.
It returned to the leylines as quickly as it had appeared, leaving only broken bodies to mark its passage.

The portcullis is superfluous.
"This is as far as I go."
—Beckram, Skiltfolk escort

It shows affection an automaton never could.
Furnace air crackles with magmatic cackles.
"If it has ears, it will dance to my tune."



"Beauty to the eye does not always translate to the touch."
—Naimah, Femeref philosopher

At the end of the show, she stands alone on a stage brilliant with blood.


The arrival of the God-Pharaoh marked a betrayal of both gods and mortals.

They say the forest has eyes. They never mention its claws.


Selesnya guildmages do not sleep so the rest of the conclave can.

The armies paused, silent, as the warriors reflected on the sunsets of their youth.
The bigger they are, the stronger its pull.

The Howling Mine moves faster than the speed of sound. The screams you hear are the group ahead of you.
"To comprehend the full answer requires years of temporal study. In short, they were now never born in the first place."
—Teferi
"Come, little one. Unfurl your wings, fill your lungs, and release your first fiery breath."
"You may enter the city—once the toll is paid."
The market is now closed.


"Want to sink a ship? Blow a hole in the hull. Want to kill a regisaur? Same answer."
—Captain Brandis Thorn
"If one's life is blessed, solutions to all life's problems will appear at the right moment."
—*The Book of Kith and Kin*
Rattle me bones as I cross the floor
And the bones in your grave will rattle no more.


"Elemental fire shimmers with rose hues and, unlike terrestrial blazes, smolders long after it's extinguished."
—Jestus Dreya, *Of Elements and Eternity*

Though solitary by nature, the sphinxes did not hesitate to join in the fight against the Eldrazi.



"I saw the wizard gesturing, but I didn't guess his plan until my aesthir cried out and went into a dive."
—Arna Kennerüd, skyknight

"You saved that *Urza's Saga* pack all these years for *this*?"
It is taller than all but the tallest trees, and older than all but the oldest.


Construction in New Capenna is imbued with tradition and ritual.

Sometimes the smallest nuisance can be the greatest pain.
The orcs believe Sek'Kuar still lives in the Karplusan Mountains, gathering his dead army, intent on revenge.
She remembers every word spoken, from the hero's oath to the baby's cry.
Taj-Nar, throne of Raksha Golden Cub, destined leader of the leonin prides.


When the alliance between Balduvia and Kjeldor deprived Stromgald of easy victories, its agents were forced to fuel their rituals with their own flesh.
When the task spilled over into undeath, he stopped calling it his life's work.

"The Talas pirates are motivated by money, so we paid them twice what they could steal from us to spy for us instead."
—Jhoira

Fire giants love to fight on a large scale, and Duke Zalto is one of the greatest warmongers of his age.
When your pack is nowhere to be found, you form a new one.

"Let the gray-hairs keep their ravens and drakes. My familiar will be a reflection of me: bloodthirsty, with a predator's instinct."
—Taivang, barbarian warlord









A swiftblade is an artist, each fiery trail of their blades a fleeting masterpiece traced on the air.

"I'll rain down on you with the power of magic itself. Then we'll see who prevails."
—Alexi, zephyr mage
"In memories, we can find our deepest reserves of strength."


The people of the Sun Empire worship the sun in three aspects: the creative sun, the sustaining sun, and the destructive sun.
"You will pass with respect, or you will not pass at all."

The Wall of Bone is said to be an aspect of the Great Wall in Hel, where the bones of all sinners wait for Ragnarok, when Hela will call them forth for the final battle.
"Looks like they're just piling on now."
"The sylex blast marked not only the end of the war, but the end of Dominaria as most knew it."
—*The Antiquities War*


Ghirapur is a beacon of inspiration, attracting the most brilliant minds on Kaladesh.

Luckily for them, it doesn't take much brains to slaughter and maim.
"They weren't part of my plan, but Gaea insisted."
—Urza


It's the favored mount of military commanders as well as anyone with a flair for the dramatic.

Wracked with rot, it wrecks and ruins.

"Whoa—my tail will *never* fit through that hole!"

The village's name was long forgotten, its crumbling ruins a monument to the fragility of civilization.

"In the soil of leadership sprout the seeds of immortality."
—Kaysa, Elder Druid of the Juniper
Giants sleep soundly and long, sometimes for long enough that a crust of earth and moss grows over them. But inevitably something disturbs their slumber, and they wake unhappy.
Burning fervor and fearsome skill create a lethal beauty terrible to behold.


Faith in Serra is its own reward.
Common side effects include headaches, ringing in ears, and excessive smithereens. In some cases, a small hole in space-time may develop.
The book shrieks horribly until its cover is opened, granting the spirit inside a moment's rest from the painful stirrings of the book's contents.
The last thing a poacher in the Krosan Forest hears is the brutal sound of claws tearing flesh.

"My rule persists beyond death itself."
"You can't hope to comprehend the plans that are in motion."
—Tezzeret
Something soft bumped against the rowboat, then was gone.
"There are all kinds of strengths, but if you have strength of soul, the others will follow."
—Galanda Feudkiller

Automated systems at the Tolarian Academy sort new acquisitions for optimal use, determining which should be studied, eaten, or sold.
"Full of beauty and grace, with a predator's instincts . . . Although she wanders, I have always thought Mirri belongs in Llanowar most of all."
—Rofellos, Llanowar emissary
"It's faster than we are. Draw its attention while the Ledev take aim!"
—Shauntal, Boros legionnaire


It has no respect for the deeds of martyrs, reducing their legacy to a mouthful of flesh.
Thaumaturges remain silent around chimeras, lest their words conjure even stranger beasts.
The pulsing heat of the midday Sun burns in the Lion's eye.
—Stone inscription, source unknown
"All matter, animate or not, rots when exposed to time. We merely speed up the process."
—Ezoc, Golgari rot farmer

Despite its appearance, it's anything but defenseless.
Those who are chosen do not doubt. Those who remain do not lament.

The ancient Planeswalkers Sorin and Nahiri battled across Ravnica, their blows cutting as deep as their grudge.

"Best bury them right. We don't want any gruesome encores."
—Constable Trosk



The sound of every twisted secret tempts you to hear another.


Every Ardenvale aspirant must step through the flame. Their honor determines whether they burn or shine.



"I write upon clean white parchment with a sharp quill and the blood of my students, divining their secrets."
—Shauku, Endbringer


The wardens keep watch over an endless sea of progress.
"Avacyn's protection is everywhere. From the holy church to the sacred glade, all that we see is under her blessed watch."
"Think of this new life not as a gift from the angels but as a command to fight for their cause once more."
—War blessing of Serra
The wills of mortals shift as the tide ebbs and flows.
"Its rise is like the sun's, a beautiful beginning. Its descent is like the sun's, a frightful ending."
—Huatli
Adepts of the Riverwheel Stronghold can run through rain and never get wet; masters use the raindrops as stepping stones.

Hunters lure the stripling boar into the open, hoping to trap greater prey.


"Roam as you will, your roots remain in the strong earth of your Rising."
"With every passing day, the kami shape our world to suit their will. I, for one, would not see them succeed."
Not every tale ends in glory.
The Tolarian Academies are known for their magical research, powerful sorcerers, and accidental destruction of ecosystems.
As Glissa searches for the truth about Memnarch, Bosh searches to unearth the secrets of his past.


"All will know of your crimes."





Early sailors thought they were tricks of the mind or perhaps manatees. As more and more ships were classified as lost to "manatee attacks," the truth began to dawn.

Its three sides represent the Sova, judges and arbitrators; the Jelenn, scribes and elocutors; and the Lyev, lawmages and enforcers.

Devils sow grief and harvest glee.
Izzet-designed conductors atop Sunhome charge empty sets of armor that give form to the fluctuating elementals.
In a hobgoblin's view of the world, the weak owe tribute and fealty to the strong.
"Look to the north; there you will find aid and comfort."
—*The Book of Tal*
There were no tombstones in orochi territory. Slain warriors were buried with a tree sapling, so they would become a part of the forest after death.


"Anger is fleeting; remorse is eternal."
—Karn, silver golem
"I don't understand why he works so hard on a device to duplicate a sound so easily made with hand and armpit."
—Barrin, progress report
Banished to the Dark Meanders for hideous crimes, some merrows find a taste for the darkness . . . and the dead.

When defeat is near and guidance is scarce, all eyes look in one direction.




Aether currents in the sky mirror water currents below, including the deadly rapids.
"Keep your pace steady through the haze, lest you step on the heels of your future self or trip the self a moment behind you."
—Teferi
All around the foundry, automatons unhitched themselves from their mounts and pivoted to face Chandra.

The quickest way to get through the jungle is to agitate a rhino and run in its wake.


Intent: The spell shows a creature being damaged by powerful rays of light.

"I have no clan, but I still have purpose."
Asses to ashes, Donkeys to dust.
"What bait do you cast to catch a dream?"
—Ravnican riddle
"Catch!"
"The blades will have their say, but peace is built with words."

"Memnarch or the vedalken salvage most of the large machines, leaving us only scraps. Scraps are enough."
Shadows coiled around the witness's mind. Then the moment vanished, leaving only the sting of its loss.

"The time for subtlety is over, darling."
"It has been my honor to improve on the Thran's original design. Perhaps history will remember me in some small part for my work."
—Urza, in his apprenticeship


Some spells sing a quiet tune. Others roar.
"I came seeking a challenge. All I found was you."
—Zurgo, khan of the Mardu
She now sees only Emrakul's visions.


A light to bring hope in dark times.



"Listen to the roar! Feel the thunder! The Immersturm shouts its approval with every bolt of lightning!"
"These fiends are slightly less tolerable than you."
"A sentiment that warms my heart, sister."
"Mists are carefree. They drift where they will, unencumbered by rocks and river beds."
—Thrasios, triton hero

"Before I hire new recruits, I test how long they can hold their breath. You'd be surprised how often it comes up."
—Zahr Gada, Halimar expedition leader



"If weakness does not exist within the Temur then we shall force it upon them."
—Sidisi, khan of the Sultai
Each side prayed for the gods to smite the other. In the end, all their prayers were answered.
When Belzenlok's lieutenant Yar-Kul grew too ambitious, the Demonlord transformed him into a maggot. The frog that ate the maggot grew and grew, until a ravenous spirit burst from its body.





A hunter in the city requires the utmost cunning to survive. It must pounce only if the kill is certain, and leave the remains where no one will see.

"Teferi snapped his fingers, and the viashino started clucking like a chicken. Silly, yes, but exactly the thing we needed to break the stifling tension."
—Jhoira, master artificer
"Greet death with sword in hand."
Those who die in the dungeon become its guardians.

Enduring the most desolate and dangerous conditions, Abzan sentries unfailingly guard the stronghold gates.

Even those who leave the labyrinth never escape it, forever dreaming of their time trapped within.
"Thraben's pleas fall on deaf ears. Ours do not."

"One day I will rest and join my comrades in the afterlife, but not while scum like you still sully this world."

"I abandoned my dream of a squadron of griffin-riders when the cost proved too high. Three trainers were eaten for every griffin broken to the bridle."
—King Darien of Kjeldor


"Volrath stole everything there was of me."
—Takara
Two bodies, twice the malice.

An elvish duel is a thing of beauty: the warriors' grace, the crash of steel, then the artful spray of blood.
"Brave scar or unfortunate tale? It all depends on your pain threshold."



"We came to a place where the skin of Zendikar was peeled back and its bones lay bare to the sky."
—Greenweaver Mina
First your whole life flashes before your eyes. Then you have considerable time to reflect on every regret as you plummet.
In the smoldering ashes of Shiv, a few dragons strive to rebuild their native land. The rest seek any opportunity to restore the broken pride of their race.
Barbarians invented the blaze of glory. Dwarves perfected it.
"Fine, you know more than me. But do you have to be such a show-off about it?"
—Chandra Nalaar, to Teferi


In the high caves of the Qal Sisma mountains, young hunters quest to hear the echoes of their fierce ancestors.

In the Cabal, death is just another mark of devotion.

Centuries ago, Shizo was a verdant field of wildflowers. After 891 samurai died in a single battle on its grasses, it became a haunted moor.
There is only one fate left to those banished from the God-Pharaoh's city.





An explorer's reward is a view of tomorrow's possible meals.


He realized a bit late that he was supposed to *plant* the magic beans.

Even now, Shaila's descendants proudly occupy the greenway that she refused to relinquish to the Consulate.
Chains of leaping fire and sizzling lightning laid waste the artificers' handiwork, sparing not a single device.

The Stinkdrinker warren's hill of salvaged trinkets is large enough to cut a door in.
Rather than sheltering her young, the female Fungusaur often injures her own offspring, thereby ensuring their rapid growth.


Devil-blades and dripping blood make music Rakdos never tires of hearing.
Two futures unfurled before the mage, each rife with its own promise.


The oil created the mycosynth. The mycosynth created New Phyrexia.

Ears can't hear them. Eyes see too many of them.

The pain of a lifetime—every scrape, illness, and bruise—condensed into a single moment.


"We are kinfolk," explained Karn to the sliver queen. "Just as you need your progeny to complete you, so do I need the pieces of the Legacy to make me whole."
It's so tough it can frighten *itself* into hiding.
"With a single word, they were unmade."
—Krinnea, *Siege of the Bone Spire*
"She may call herself Kiora but I believe she is Thassa, the embodiment of the sea and empress of the depths."
"If the curse does not strike you dead, question your soul."
—Kaervek

Their shields are Benalia's outermost battlements.
The dead know lessons the living haven't learned.
"Glory was gone; Glory was everywhere."
—Scroll of Beginnings



"My power is generosity, in a way. I give my survivors an appreciation for their lives."


Hospitality is of little concern to those who do not wish to be disturbed.





The deeper the wood, the greater its strength.

"Some delicacies are not to be savored, save by the callous."
—Baron Sengir


Her children are ever part of her.

The communal mind produces a savage strategy, yet no one could predict that this vicious crossbreed would unravel the secret of steel.
"Return to the earth and the wind."

"The crucible yields what you have forged in your mind. You need only reach in and draw the masterwork forth."
—Wahara, Keeper of the Crucible
Once you learn to float on the shadows, you'll never fear them again.
"These halls are sacred. You will be silent."
Anyone can get around a cyclops, but few can stand in its way.
"The secrets of Phyrexia are expensive. You will pay in brass and bone, steel and sinew."
—Kaervek
Linger on death's door and risk being invited in.



"To survive exceptional times we must adapt by exceptional means."
—Vannifar
The first vine shows the others where to grow.





A baloth only cares about the many things it eats and the few things that eat it.


Esper artificers never imagined that one day their scraps would be pressed against their soft and fragile throats.



"The world was not hostile to us—we were beneath its notice, and presented no danger."
—*The Invokers' Tales*








"Forget that which was never known."
—Spellbomb inscription
It promises protection to those in need and proclaims a warning to any who would threaten Ravnican law.




"The eerie, wailing Hymn caused insanity even in hardened warriors."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. II*
There are few things as satisfying as a good, healthy thunk.
"Lies cannot long withstand the harsh light of day."
—Lavinia
Scarecrows deemed too malevolent to roam free are shackled to boulders or dolmen stones. Their animosity usually outlives the chains.
"We coat ourselves in steel every day. What is etherium but the next logical step?"



The cinders believe their flame was stolen by one they call the Extinguisher. All who now wield fire draw their desperate wrath.
"Works every time."
—Halana, Kessig ranger
It is said that the wind will blow the world past if you wait long enough.

The carnage of conflicts long past still stains the Otarian soil.
"Eyeblights are easy to track. Just follow the imperfections."
Only the Cabal could make a fight to the death more deadly.

A favorite of Erebos, for it has sent many to the Underworld.
Enter the Senate, the seat of justice and the foundation of Ravnican society.
"It's not that I didn't expect some defiance, but I did hope it wouldn't be so heavily armed."
—Olivia Voldaren




Simun the Quiet filled the chest with his most precious thoughts. But in a fit of paranoia, he locked up the memory of where he hid the key.


"Garl, adjust the slurry dispensers. Garl, fetch more corpses. Garl, quit crying and give me your brain tissue. If he doesn't stop being so rude, I'm quitting."




Every facet a benediction of Lathander's light.

As the iron bars of the portcullis parted like reeds, the defenders of the keep suddenly felt much less secure.

"If you threaten its territory, it produces spores. Actually, no matter what you do, it produces spores."
—Hadi Kasten, Calla Dale naturalist
A brainchild of Tawnos, the Triskelion later proved both versatile and useful.

Where swords fail, faith transcends.

The only rare you'll ever need. Okay, not really.
The sharp memory of Daxos's death stabbed into Elspeth's soul.


"Show your enemies as much mercy as they would show you."
—Surrak, the Hunt Caller

The Yeti's single greatest asset is its unnerving ability to blend in with its surroundings.

"What you call magic, I call the power of memory."


The forest was too lush for the brothers to despoil—almost.
Heavier than it looks, tricky to wield, guaranteed to last.
Nowhere on Ikoria are monsters more integral to the landscape than Ketria, where the river itself will stand up and roar.
Death eventually wiggles toward us all.
"The size of the obvious Fortress walls often misled foes. Actually, the Elves enchanted the forest itself to provide the first line of defense with tangling vines and stinging thorns."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. III*
In the harsh depths of Rootwater, the charms of surface dwellers are quite useless . . . except as lures.

The province of Jingzhou was the fulcrum of the three kingdoms. At separate times it was coveted and controlled by the Wu, the Shu, and the Wei.
Warning to those who scale the cliffs without paying tribute: It's a long way down.
The generals each surveyed their devastated forces. Then, slowly, they turned to each other and raised their swords.
The land can only hold so much poison before it begins to bite back.
"The day will come when the righteous warrior faces a battle she cannot win. She will greet that day as she has any other."
—Asmira, holy avenger

"If you've been at this as long as I have, nothing can surprise you. That's the hope, at least."
Wizards' spells twist the fabric of reality to channel elemental energies, peer into the future, and even calm the Roil.
"None of your history books mention me?" laughed Daria. "They will now."
"I don't get it. Why doesn't anybody like me?"
Beauty stirs the memory like a sweet perfume excites the air.
Interlopers in Sultai territory usually end up as crocodile chow or baboon bait.


"This expedition doesn't succeed unless we all succeed!"



"I can only glimpse the future. These little ones will bring it about."
"I could heal a snakebite. Looks like you got bitten by a constellation."
—Aescalos, healer of Pharika



The faeries snickered at first. A common hob in Oona's skies? But his lance ended their mockery, and now the sound of a cicada's wings brings a shudder to the faerie heart.
"We're ready for anything!"


"Remember the fable of the elf who came upon a cave of gold. In trying to free the largest piece, she was crushed by its weight."
—Karn
From death she grows living grandeur.
When it awoke, it shook the plane with the thunder of its craving.



Moving without sound, swift figures pass through branches and undergrowth completely unhindered. One with the trees around them, the dryads of Shanodin Forest are seen only when they wish to be.
"I got it! I got it! I—"

"Wear her symbol with honor, a sign of faith upheld and honest deeds bravely done."





Even after a false god tore magic from Dominaria, power still radiated from the Mirari sword that slew her.
"The heavens augur weal . . . for me. Woe for you."


"Wear this, and take your place among the shadows—wise, lethal, and unseen."
—Ivrelya, Dimir spymaster
"You will fully understand fear when you discover it is the final thing you put your faith in."
—Nicol Bolas
The persistence to overcome obstacles is the most esteemed of kor virtues.

The Neurok see the artificer as an archaeologist, clearing away falsehoods to see the truth hidden beneath.

The goblins didn't think of the myr at all, which allowed the myr to observe everywhere unhindered.
"They groaned, they stirred, they all uprose,/ Nor spake, nor moved their eyes;/ It had been strange, even in a dream,/ To have seen those dead men rise."/ —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
They cover their territory like a tide of teeth and claws.
In his hunger for power and knowledge, Urza dug deep into Dominaria's ancient past.




"To think that some find sleep a restful state."
—Volrath

"When a phoenix nests in a volcano, we rejoice, for it means a hundred years of war."
—Golmak, Keldon warlord
It lingers near the outposts of the Makindi Trenches, inadvertently granting another layer of defense.


"Civilization will subsume us unless we overwhelm it instead."
—Speaker Zegana
"You serve Phyrexia. Your pieces would better serve Phyrexia elsewhere."
—Azax-Azog, the Demon Thane
Basri carries on his god's legacy, spreading her teachings throughout the Multiverse.



Never underestimate the power of overwhelming stupidity in overwhelming numbers.
"The trick is, once you get moving, don't stop!"
Ending her life won't end the infestation.


There were no tombstones in orochi territory. Slain warriors were buried with a tree sapling, so they would become a part of the forest after death.

"A crystallized moment in time from the Mending Era, first discovered during the Ice Age. A temporal conundrum, even to the great scholar himself."
—*The Discoveries of Feldon*
The judges at the Fair are held in such high esteem that a nod of recognition can inspire an inventor for a lifetime—and a wave of dismissal can end a career.
The Izzet mage knew she would neither get her thermoinverter back nor have the satisfaction of exploding it herself.

"The purpose of existence is simple: everything is fuel for the magmaw."
—Jaji, magmaw worshipper


As the Simic released more of their krasis experiments, they required new habitats, always at the expense of the locals.

Without the viziers to oversee their actions, some anointed went to extreme lengths to fulfill their directives.




One razorclaw is three bears too many.
—Elvish saying
"The time of salvation is at hand. Dusk washes over the world, and the Legion will rise immortal!"
The night is the greatest ally of all.

"To see past the veil of death, cross it."
@-The Red Book of Mezdrithalik
"I stepped out. I did not step down."



"This one will need direction. After all, each of its eyes is larger than its brain."
—Cyla, Lord of the Aerie



And yea he doth spake: "Let there be Magic."
"Never get too attached to a weapon. You must allow a better one to find its way to you."

"We'll put it all back! The gems, the gold, the chalice that would've looked great on my mantle; we'll put everythi—"

"Your crops will rot. The air itself will turn against you. You will suffer as I have suffered."
—Karaz, outcast
"Sages who take the time to verify their sources are rewarded for their diligence."
—Jhoira, to Teferi
As the glass shattered, forgotten realities and dead memories came flooding back.

Some fruits are best left ungathered.
"At the Reapportionment, Eagle begged to be human. The Ancestor granted half that prayer."
—Nomad myth


"Not even a roaring fire could thaw the chill it put in my heart."
—Vonn, geist-trapper
"That was fun! Now me."
—Gwendlyn Di Corci
The coils spiral like time itself, carrying spirits back around from death to reawakening.
Left barren by the Brothers' War, it stands as a stark reminder of Dominaria's likely fate should the Coalition fail.
Take two steps north into the unsettled future, south into the unquiet past, east into the present day, or west into the great unknown.
"To see gods among the people, part of their daily lives . . . It's inspiring."

"Pierce the heart and pierce the head, even the mightiest fall down dead."
Terrible fury. Excellent aim.
No more shall the righteous cower before evil.


"The hydraulic power grip was a failure, but the gauntlets were a shocking success."
—Journal of the Prime Izmagnus

Moorlanders speak in awe of the priests' talent for arriving just in time to drive off the wicked things that prowl the ravished parish.
Man's best fungus.


Its roar is the clatter of a thousand bones.
Sometimes the *eludha* is a sacred harmony of souls. Sometimes the bonder grabs some fur and holds on tight.

I never metamorphosis I didn't like.



"He hasn't returned to the Cloud Forest. But I can still sense his calming presence."
—Zaliki of Naya
"Ideas drift like petals on the wind. I have only to lift my face to the breeze."
"Because the orc hordes attacked along the entire border, Scouts were essential to Icatia's defense."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. VI*
"My specialty is theoretical universal limits and ways to circumvent them."





Were she not a judge, she'd win the division herself.
"It rose above our heads, above the ship, and still higher yet. No foggy, ice-laden sea in the world could frighten me more."
—General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox

A killing machine from birth.
It took all its strength to contain the fire within.


"Melt that which was never frozen."
—Spellbomb inscription
"Execution awaits the dissenter."
—Kasib ibn Naji, *Letters*






Gentle hands of stone whisk the careless from the crumbling ruins of Pillardrop.


After the Foundry Street riot, Arrester Hulbein tried to ban bludgeons. Which, inevitably, resulted in another riot.


A moment in time made tangible, it has the power to realize epic visions.

"The war sent Kamigawa into turmoil. Here it was spring and there winter. For some, time stood still, while for others, moments flashed past like minnows in a pond."
—*Observations of the Kami War*
"Though tempered differently, all wills can be broken."
—Inquisitor Kyrik









Serra's blessing lies strongest upon Sursi, where her holy chapels are untouched even as the Cabal encroaches.
Some smiles show cheer; some merely show teeth.
"We of the Sanctum Arcanum have pondered every word on every page of the Filigree Texts. If you can't say the same, don't bother speaking."

Vampires don't consider patience a virtue nor gluttony a sin.


"May the light shine through me to guide the lost."


Ambition has a price in Baldur's Gate, and it is paid to the Council.


"Time to let the dead be dead."
—Kaya, to Teysa




Bound to a cryptek, the cryptothrall exists for one reason: to defend its master to the death.


The wills of mortals shift as the tide ebbs and flows.


Her cold wail echoes in the alleys and under-eaves, finding the unfortunate and turning their blood to ice.


"The young can be quite dangerous. Trust me, I should know."
—Ertai, wizard adept

"One for all, all for one; we strike first, and then you're done!"
—Oath of the Kobold Musketeers
"To pass through the jungle: silence, courtesy, ferocity, as the occasion demands."
—Kamau, "Proper Passage"
Man versus nature is not a fair fight.



"I tell you, the trees were closing in! It's by the grace of the Heron alone that I made it out of the Ulvenwald!"
—Ricton, traveling merchant
"Ghirapur's gremlin population poses a threat to the infrastructure of the fairgrounds. Threats must be eliminated."
—Sram, senior edificer
"Yes, nature is stronger. You don't see little buildings sprouting on trees."
—Emmara


The farther they go from Vitu-Ghazi, the less willing the crowd is to part for them.
"All things must eat, after all. Even the air can hunger."
—Gemma, Willow Priestess
The Champion reached for a stone, and Heliod placed the sun into her hand.
—*The Theriad*
Many matches make more madcap monkey mayhem.

Phyrexia wastes nothing. Its food chain is a spiraling cycle.
"I always attack from where their spyglasses can't see."
"Fire is the universal language."
—Jhoira, master artificer
"Full fathom five thy father lies;/ Of his bones are coral made;/ Those are pearls that were his eyes;/ Nothing of him that doth fade,/ But doth suffer a sea-change/ Into something rich and strange." —William Shakespeare, *The Tempest*
Some kami attacks during the war were rife with trickery, subterfuge, and subtlety, draining hope and pride from the mortal world. Other attacks were a lot more straightforward.
Is her need to heal born out of compassion or penance?
"He steals power from treasure after treasure, and what does it do for the ouphe? Nothing."
—Jhoira



"A single light can hold back endless darkness."
"I prefer loyalty to be a matter of respect, not of magic. But one does what one must."
—Kaalia of the Vast

It seldom rains in Abzan lands. When it does, the khan marks the occasion by honoring the families of the fallen.
"Within each of you is the strength of a landslide."
—Kumano, to his pupils



To wield lightning is to tame chaos.

From the highest tiers of Dawn's Light Palace to the deepest shade of Wren's Run, the silver notes of the horn shimmer through the air, and all who hear it feel its pull.



"Rich" is a relative term.
Death is no impediment to dinner.
. . . but the price of Mangara's freedom was Asmira's life.
Born with wings of light and a sword of faith, this heavenly incarnation embodies both fury and purity.

Nature abhors a zombie.
"If you're starving, eat your horses, your dead, or yourself—but *never* eat your dog."
—General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox
If you try to sneak up on a rootwalla, you'll suddenly find yourself dealing with twice the lizard.

"A crafter must imbue her weapon with part of her soul—something the Phyrexians are incapable of doing."
—Melira, sylvok outcast

Mirri leapt quickly and silently. The guard died likewise.

Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti Djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.
Stinking of rot, it leaps between gravestones in search of its next meal.
"I could demonstrate how the leonin sunsplicer works, but then you'd be too dead to buy one."
Once he'd worked out which end of the thing was sharp, he was promoted to guard duty.
The elite of Ojutai's brood, the skywise see their enemies as puzzles to be solved.
To the Golgari, anything buried is treasure.

He's smart for a goblin. He can do *two* things: hit *and* run.
"From your death, new life. From your loss, our profit."
—Kirada, Qarsi overseer
"Fool! Can't you see the tide has turned against you?"




"Words—so innocent and powerless are they, as standing in a dictionary; how potent for good and evil they become to one who knows how to combine them!"
—Nathaniel Hawthorne

Clash of sword and cry of beast fall mute when angels sound the call to prayer.
"If nothing else, the Inventors' Fair taught us that we're only beginning to discover aether's true potential."
—Kershan Danil, Highspire artisan

"Avacyn has deserted you. I welcome your devotion in her stead."


Amonkhet's desiccated land thirsts for blood.

"Memory is a burden that wears at the soul as weather wears at stone."
—Crovax






"Your swords and wards have no power here."
2018 Asia Legacy Champion




The city is vast and perilous, but there are places where a weary traveler can feel very much at home.
Her poppets bring joy to the truly depraved.
"You might believe being dead for centuries has made me more lenient. I think you'll find the opposite to be true."


Not all shadows are cast by light—some are cast by darkness.





Some have returned to Hollowhenge, the ruins of Avabruck, to restore the lost capital of Kessig.

"What am I looking at? Ashes, dead man."

"...There was no trace/ Of aught on that illumined face..."
—Samuel Coleridge, "Phantom"

"Silumgar's mind is a dark labyrinth, full of grim secrets and subtle traps."
—Siara, the Dragon's Mouth
A mercurial face sows distrust. Distrust reaps a lonely life.
To merfolk, pirates are a nuisance. To pirates, merfolk are a threat. To the kraken, they're both appetizers.
"I do as I choose with what is mine. And it is all mine."
—Nicol Bolas
Some find inspiration in their swords. Others find it in their leaders.

It adds injury to injury.
The aberrant magic of the Rimewind drew the unicorns back from the northern wastes to do battle once again.
"Expect to be out of commission for about a week. It's awesome."
—*Salzon's Ride Review*
"If the other guilds want a war, they should know we've been ready the whole time."
—Ruric Thar, Ghor-Clan chieftain
The ground erupted in time with the hedron's thrum, a dirge of the last days.
Sarulf's snarl of rage shook the World Tree.

Skybridges from across Kylem converge at the grand stadium of Valor's Reach.
"It's not just what you know. It's knowing where to find what you don't."
"Duty and honor are reasons enough, but beating you will also be a pleasure."

"Why do we trade with those despicable elves? You don't live in forests, you burn them!"
—Avram Garrisson, leader of the Knights of Stromgald


Nothing escapes its gaze—or its breath.


With just a few seconds to escape, Deryan saved Hurkyl's editions on restoring physical objects from ash.
A true scribe devotes an entire lifetime to the creation of a single volume, a masterpiece as unique as its maker.

"Fire is the universal language."
—Jhoira, master artificer
Before the zealots of the Ethersworn came to power, Esper illusionists dreamed up creations to mimic a variety of substances.

"The only true immortality is in dying for a cause."
—Halvor Arensson, Kjeldoran Priest
"You're telling me we spent a year securing the sanctuary against pterosaurs, rambeasts, and nightfangs . . . and we were robbed by what?"
—Endris, Drannith magistrate
Her centuries-long search is ended.
As unstoppable as it is unsteerable.



"You're done!"

The Sunbriar druids believe that every life begins in its heart and ends under its hooves.

"Gods don't die. They merely slumber."
—Ayli, Kamsa cleric
"Adopt the character of the twisting octopus, which takes on the appearance of the nearby rock. Now follow in this direction, now turn a different hue."
—Theognis, *Elegies 1, 215*
"Now is the hour. Ours is the duty. For victory and family—charge!"



". . . [S]creams of horror rend th' affrighted skies." —Alexander Pope, *The Rape of the Lock*

"Controlling time ensures you need never look impulsive again."
—Teferi
"All rivers eventually run to the sea. My job is to sort out who goes first."
—Maeveen O'Donagh, *Memoirs of a Soldier*

"A wanderer has told me of an assassin in the Takenuma Swamp who uses her dark arts to animate her enemies' shadows against them. A wild tale, but it explains much."
—Diary of Azusa

The Ulvenwald makes no allowances for youth. Today's newborn is either tomorrow's hunter or tomorrow's lunch.
"Once Avacyn returned, I hoped I'd never need these things again. I didn't think I'd be dusting them off to use against angels."

"You would never guess, at the terrifying sight of the man, that Hunding was as charming a companion as one could wish for."
"Every death has a web of consequences. Our job is to find the spider."
"Jharic returned from Grixis changed, a haunted look in her eyes. She destroyed them with an unholy glee that made me shudder."
—Knight-Captain Wyhorn



As the fifth sun joins the other four, new abilities awaken in the creatures of Mirrodin.
"How does one become a self-taught genius? Naturally, it requires brains."
Imitation is the most dangerous form of flattery.
The Southern Paladin taught the airborne vermin to fear the storm that rains upward.
"Dong Zhuo's man, Lu Bu, warrior without peer, / Far surpassed the champions of his sphere."


Don't drink and thrive.
All who listen hear their own song, a unique melody played just for them.


"We can wait like helpless children for a hero, or we can gather our courage and *be* the heroes. Who's with me?"

A light an army can follow.
A boon to those who cannot see in the dark. A bane to those who live in it.
Those who regard the Gruul as savage simpletons underestimate the subtle power of their shamans.


Built to shuttle goods from the river, it took off one day carrying a cauldron of dyes.

It is an expert at culling individuals who stray too far from the herd.



"By the time your knees have worn through your robe, you may have begun to learn your place."

"Every temper tantrum makes another angry gorilla."
—Femeref children's myth


Malice is appropriate when vengeance is called for.


The dwarves call their quicksilver techniques "improvisational weaponsmithing."
"What do you have that I cannot obtain?"
—Mairsil, the Pretender

"We asked for a home and received the world."
—*Scroll of Nine Blessings*
"Of course she's at the head of her class. All her classmates have disappeared."
—Gatha, Tolarian renegade


Witherbloom students learn to see death not as tragedy, but as opportunity.

"We are farther west than any could have imagined possible, but I still wish to press on. Unfortunately, huge walls of ice block further travel. We can't believe they are natural."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry


An Atarka dragon's exhale cooks what its inhale consumes.
It basks atop the rubble of Rhonas's monument, which still pulses with latent power.




"Flourishing during the Ice Age, these wurms were the bane of all Kjeldorans. Their great size and ferocity made them the subject of countless nightmares—they embodied the worst of the Ice Age."
—*Kjeldor: Ice Civilization*

"Only the pure stand tall in the light."
—Sigarda

There's so much more to Ghirapur than can be accessed by traditional roads.

To serve as an eternal is the afterlife granted to the worthy.

At his behest the Kami War began to regain That Which Was Taken.



"I can preserve ten lives by taking one."





Educated in Argive and highly knowledgeable in the field of artifacts, this expert navigator of the *Weatherlight* believes that scholarship does not necessarily lead to understanding. Her diligence in pursuing both is her greatest asset.

A valiant knight's life has no meaning without honor.
Riding ravenous, ever-growing vorracs is almost as dangerous as fitting them with saddles.
"You tread upon the land all the time, yet you seem dismayed when it moves to step on you."
—Nissa Revane
"Zendikar fortifies itself against the Great Threat, making sentries of sky, sea, and stone."
—*The War Diaries*

"And the flamingos said, 'Get out of our nest—we can't be seen with the likes of you!' So, the griffin ate them."
—Azeworai, "The Ugly Bird"
Nature grows solutions to her problems.




"Of course it offered you power. Demons always do. But trust me—the sweeter the prize, the more ruinous the price."
—Professor Onyx



Few swim in a place of such thirst.

It's there when a seed sprouts, when gourds ripen on the vines, and when the reapers cut the grains under the Harvest Moon.
His abode was clean and bare, not a morsel in sight. I asked him what he ate, fearing the answer. He smiled and said his faith alone sustained him.
"Of course she's at the head of her class. All of her classmates have disappeared."
—Tolarian renegade

Its shriek is unintelligible, but armored bulkheads seem to understand the intent well enough.
"Don't be fooled. If it were as docile as it looks, it would've died off long ago."
—Yon Basrel, Oran-Rief survivalist

The Champion reached for a stone, and Heliod placed the sun into her hand.
@-The Theriad
"Many are in high place, and of renown: but mysteries are revealed unto the meek." —Ecclesiastes 3:19

When does majestic become ominous?







"You've strayed, overworlder."
The physical pain was nothing compared to the agony in his mind.

"I don't have time for you right now."
—Teferi

Inscribed with runes that predate the dragon, its horns possess their own ancient magic.

Some dwarves can only be pushed so far.




Skirsdag cultists believe that the right poison "purifies" a tainted soul before it makes its way to Ormendahl.
"May you rise again, from seed to sapling to sentience."

Those who believed the city of Kroog would never fall to Mishra's forces severely underestimated the might of his war machines.
Once a fierce foe, she would become one of Madara's greatest protectors.
The Church of Dusk teaches there is no gain without loss, no triumph without sacrifice, no drink of exquisite crimson without a dying gasp.



The milk bottle toss is closed until the rules can be amended.
"I've seen death before. My mother succumbing to illness, my comrades bleeding on the battlefield . . . But I'd never seen anything as dreadful as that."
—Taani, berserker of Etlan

The Ghitu believe their race was born of fire, and it's an honor to return to it.
It lingers near the outposts of the Makindi Trenches, inadvertently granting another layer of defense.


"From the ashes of last night's revel, I bring the dawn on new growth."


Small talk is a dying art.





"The first step toward transcending physical limitations is discarding assumptions about what is possible."
"Best leave your tongue in its yap-hole, Mercadian scum, for your silvered words and golden bribes do not sparkle so brightly outside your city."
As a scholar, she saw the sylex not as a weapon, but as a key to the past.
"In the embrace of the great Nurgle, I am no longer afraid, for with His pestilential favour I have become that which I once most feared: Death."
—Kulvain Hestarius of the Death Guard
Its wings produce a high-pitched, barely audible whirring sound in flight. Only Jeskai masters are quiet enough to hear one coming.



"You will kneel before me, even if I have to split the earth under your feet!"
—Ash Kronor, Keldon warlord
"Look to the north; there you will find aid and comfort." —The Book of Tal
"You burn. I'll pillage."
All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.


Nephalia's tides obey an unforgiving moon.







To survive imminent doom, it sometimes takes a foolhardy soul who acts first and fears later.
"This is how wars are won—not with armies of soldiers but with a single knife blade, artfully placed."
—Yurin, royal assassin
"Trespassers will be smelted."
—Axgard inscription




We had taken refuge in a small cave, thinking the entrance was too narrow for it to follow. To our horror, its gigantic head smashed into the mountainside, ripping itself a new entrance.

"There's no success like excess!"



Some efreet abandon their homes in the volcanic Fire Rim to embrace the Jeskai Way and discipline their innate flames.
"They had it coming."
—Squire Imalia, savior of Thiswick

"Like an avalanche. With teeth. That will chase you. Uphill."
—Flint Foot, viashino runner

"For every living person there are generations of dead. Which realm would you rather rule?"
—Liliana Vess

Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.


In the hold of the *Heart of Kiran*, Chandra answered Dovin Baan's sabotage with an explosive retort.
"To hide the truth is more than folly—it is fatal."
—Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi Heretic




"As you inject the *viscus vitae* into the brain stem, don't let the spastic moaning bother you. It will soon become music to your ears."
—Stitcher Geralf


"Training? Seeing my crops burnt to cinders was all the 'training' I needed."
It has the strength of seven men. In fact, it used to be seven men.
"'Invincible' is just a word."
—Gideon Jura




Watching the spider's web
—Llanowar expression meaning "focusing on the wrong thing"



Summoners of efreeti remember only the power of command, never the sting of regret.
It is everywhere you've ever been.



It flows like water over the forest floor, as deadly as the swiftest current.
For cryomancers, studying the Ice Age isn't just an academic exercise.
"Reynald wished for an army to sweep away his enemies. The fae king smiled."
—*Beyond the Great Henge*





"The tougher to crack, the sweeter the snack."
—Kakra, Sea Troll
"I've dreamt of a second harvest but fear I will not see it."
—Asmira, Holy Avenger

Some wicked souls linger only to consume the warmth of life.


"I find its symmetry pleasing. It rids our world of offensive refuse while disposing of itself."
—Dolomarus, Proctor of the Clean
It shambled from the cloud of ash and bone dust, undeterred by its own extinction.

"Though long forgotten, the wheel continued to turn, spinning fate from a dusty attic."
—*Beyond the Great Henge*

"Hold it! I need to see your papers."

"I'm afraid your dinner got a little . . . overcooked."
—Marlan Farthwald, innkeeper

Some nature mages unknowingly took advantage of the temporal energies still swirling on Dominaria. What they mistook for healing magic was in fact the manipulation of time.
You leave the ride either entertained or an elk. Usually the latter.
Without Locthwain's persistence, the realm would stagnate and die.

It winds its way through undergrowth as easily as it swims through shallows.

Even the trivial can inspire.
One who goes unpunished never learns.
—Greek proverb
Tazeem's embrace is harsh, but for those that call it home, nothing else will do.

Elmut had slaughtered vampires, slain werewolves, and destroyed hordes of zombies. Sadly, he never got over his fear of spiders.





Fire is never a gentle master.
"I do not miss Jukai Forest. It is not my home. My home is Kamigawa, its people my family. Wherever I set my pack and rest my head, I am home."








Cao Cao was haunted to death by the ghosts of the empresses and other high courtiers he had murdered.




"When Torahn bellows, none survive—not even the warrior whose horns he rides."
—Talruum adage
"Forgive me," Mirri whispered. "I thought you a burden, and you saved my life." Hanna quietly accepted the apology.

Hobgoblins are best left alone. They sharpen their farm implements far more than is necessary for their work in the fields.

The amorphous, magically animated residue known as the Fathom Sludge lurks in the Hagra Cistern, attacking its prey with pseudopods and dragging it down to be digested.


"Sometimes Mowu is content to gnaw on a bone. Sometimes he wants the whole skeleton."
—Jiang Yanggu
A lucky draw from the Deck of Many Things gave Voltusk an inexplicable flash of understanding that he spent the rest of his life trying to repeat.
"Nature is the ultimate mindless destroyer, capable of power and ferocity no army can match, and the Gruul follow its example."
—Trigori, Azorius senator
Made from the clay of burial mounds, the face paint of the priests is a sign of their respect for those whose rest they interrupt.


Zhang Jue, leader of the Yellow Scarves rebellion, was a Taoist master and tutored his soldiers in those arts.
Grieve for the soul in death dishonored.
—Shadow Guild saying







Akki shells provided good protection when downhill charging became headlong tumbling.




Raugrin meets the sea with jaws wide, its coast spiked with teeth of crystal and granite.



"Don't be fooled. If it were as docile as it looks, it would've died off long ago."
—Yon Basrel, Oran-Rief survivalist
"Walls? What walls?"
—Jaya Ballard, task mage
"Dawn-kissed, he nourishes the golden grain."
—Psemilla, Meletian poet

"The southern fortress taken by invaders? Heh, sure . . . when elephants fly."
—Brezard Skeinbow, captain of the guard
The Sun Empire's cities are built from the bones of the earth.
"We have come at last to this holiest of holy places. What was stolen from us long ago is ours once again."


Free from Consulate regulations, renegade-built automatons push performance to the limit.
"The arc of my blade has carved a path of light for the peace that will follow."

He rides in agitated circles, snapping orders at servants who've long since found their peace.



"In ages past, bargains were struck and promises were made. Now we must collect on our debt. Begin the hymns."
—Moruul, Khalni druid
"You know it to be false, but when its claws find you, what you know won't matter much at all."
—Pol Jamaar, illusionist
Its beak rends flesh and bone, exposing the tender marrow of dream.


They can conjure stars from a clear sky.
The will to return can overpower the will to survive.
"This is it! All the cryptoliths point here!"
—Jace Beleren
Opening Orazca unleashed more horrors than just the Immortal Sun.

"Every life has a story to tell. I won't let them be forgotten."
"Fire's out. Should be safe now."
—Gnarltrunk






A grave is the safest place to store ill-gotten treasures.
"Just wait, my Madara deck isn't all Emperor Bolas. There's an Umezawa subtheme!"
Visitors marvel at its design, unaware of the other world that inspired it.

"Why would I kill you all? Who then would be left to worship me?"
The middle blade was just right.
"The light of my master's guidance traverses all boundaries, even those separating life and death."


Nothing could grow where the vile smoke had been, and no one could breathe it and live.
"Zendikar has suffered enough. It is time, at last, for my home to know peace."
Venser wondered if it could still be called a teleportation spell if the destination is oblivion.

It was a profitable scheme, at least until the dead began to object.


Some naga initiates move as silently as the suns' reflections on the water.


"The only kind of water that should fly through the air is rain."
—Kamahl, pit fighter
"The star-born approach! Their holy angels descend! Take up arms, my brothers and sisters, for the Day of Ascension is upon us!"

A power vacuum for the Azorius. A keepsake for Vraska.
"Into its maw went the seventh sea, never to be seen again while the world remains."
—Esper fable
Through the waves of Eldrazi attacks, the Murasan jungles seemed to regrow as soon as they were destroyed.
"Forget what you have learned from other teachers. I bring you the truth."



"Double or nothing."

As Gideon watched the initiate murder his crop-mate, his admiration of the city of Naktamun gave way to horror.
Made in its creator's image, though slightly more clangy.
The fall of the evening star never heralds a gentle dawn.


"Oketra's arrow is my spear, and her love my shield."




"It's easy to get taken in by the spectacle, to enjoy a bit of naughty amusement. But make no mistake: the Cult of Rakdos is a danger."
—Tajic


"Grief is as useless as love."
—Gix, Yawgmoth praetor
"A battle's outcome is never certain."
—The Southern Paladin





"They may show up with the wrong thigh bone or mandible, but they always show up."
—Zul Ashur, lich lord

"Only those who give the dragons the respect they deserve may bear our title."


Even when the flesh grows cold, knowledge waits in the bones for a master to release it.

Urza always put Tocasia's lessons on resource-gathering to effective use.


"I don't understand why he works so hard on a device to duplicate a sound so easily made with hand and armpit."
—Barrin, progress report





"You've got to keep your wits about you on the roofs. Not all stones are compliant handholds."
—Iveta, rooftop runner
Dying for the greater good still hurts.
The squad plunged deep into Hive Pandorial, finding only the shambling corpses of those they came to avenge.

"If there were such a thing as a soul, I think it would be behind the gallbladder but above the kidneys."
"I tried to tell her to stay behind, that this fight was too dangerous. I spent the next hour tied to the rafters."
—Zahr Gada, Halimar expedition leader


Held aloft by metabolized magic, trygons are ravenous for sources of mystic fuel.
"Why do the dead remain among us? Where is Flight Alabaster to lead them home? Where is Avacyn?"
—Eruth of Lambholt



"The meal was exquisite. The conversation, less so."

Such is the power of Rakdos that even his shadow takes on a cruel life of its own.
"Some say it's better to think before you act. While those people are considering all the options, that's usually when I kill them."
—Dravus, lava mage
"Oathbreaker, I cast you out!"
It's not eager to lose the *other* eye.


The sudden sinkhole was surprising enough, but nothing could have prepared you for the ancient city that was hidden underneath.

A bribe is always faster than filling out paperwork.
From the Sardian mountains wakes ancient doom: Warrior born from a rocky womb.
When killing five just isn't enough.

"Our ancestors brought down a Phyrexian portal ship, then built our town on its hull. We're pretty proud of that."
—Alene of Riverspan

She closed her eyes and remembered the smell of the leaves of Jukai Forest. When she opened them, the buildings of Towashi had grown small.
"The Keldons' ogre campaign provided more body parts than my meager facility could properly use."
—Gatha, Tolarian renegade

"Show them. Show them how hot your fire can burn."
—Liliana Vess, to Chandra Nalaar
"Who needs stone walls when you can hide behind an impenetrable barrier of screaming nightmares?"
—Braids
"Ditri, I leave this checkpoint in your capable teeth."
—Kitov, nightguard patrol






"The more kami that passed through the veil that separated them from our world, the weaker that veil became, threatening to tear into tatters at the slightest pressure."
—*The History of Kamigawa*



"Life is fleeting, and so is death. Only the oath is eternal."
A skilled Izzet chronarch can carry out an epic vendetta between the fall of one hourglass grain and the next.
Arc mages aren't known for their patience.



"Swarms of the unhallowed claw at Thraben's gates! Do you still deny the end approaches?"
"On dark nights you can still see the light of the Vess girl's lantern out in the Caligo, seeking her lost brother. Those who follow are doomed to join her endless search."
—"The Fall of the House of Vess"
Anything sent into a plagued world is bound to come back infected.

When the School of the Unseen fell, so many magical treasures lay abandoned that no amount of death could deter the stream of thieves and desperate scholars.
Ærathi children who show promise are left to survive for a year in the wilderness. Those who return are shown the way of the Berserker.

Tarek could not tell whether he was losing his blood or his mind.
At first, vedalken observers thought blinkmoths naturally avoided certain places. Then they realized those places were frogmite feeding grounds.

Sentries guard Ravnica's landmarks and outlying districts, unaware of these places' import to the maze.



"Legend says they got a treasure cave, but it don't say where to find it."
—Zeki, Reef Pirate

"The veil between the living and the dead is so very thin that the whispers of the ancients can finally be heard."
—Amalric of Midvast Hall
"Even if we dislodge them, I fear these lands will never again yield crops."
—Kimmick, vanguard knight
"The dagger is just a distraction. I carry the real killer in a vial at my side."

A howl on the wind hides many dangers.



"Your recent work is an inspiration. I have the utmost respect for your approach, and your craft is impeccable. At your convenience, I would be honored to collaborate on a project."
—Ludevic, letter to Geralf

"A sharp conscience is the weapon of the soul."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator


Fairgoers were delighted to find that even outside the fairgrounds, Ghirapur was a city of wonders.
"If it is meant to be nothing but a machine," Karn finally asked Jhoira, "why did Urza build it to be like me?"
"I crept up on him, quiet as a guttermouse. And then suddenly I found myself facedown in a latrine pit behind Tin Street Market."
—Sirislav, Dimir spy
Saffiyah clapped her hands and twenty flying men appeared at her side, each well trained in the art of combat.
Ancient evils dwell within the burning chasm called the Ashmouth, ever ready to devour those foolish enough to travel alone.
Bred as living shields, these slivers have proven unruly—they know they cannot be caught.
"Know your foes' strengths as well as their weaknesses."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist





"You serve Phyrexia. Your pieces would better serve Phyrexia elsewhere."
—Azax-Azog, the Demon Thane


A dwarf's grudge runs deeper than the mountains' roots.


Its strings are wayward threads of fate.

To survive imminent doom, it sometimes takes a foolhardy soul who acts first and fears later.
Tzeentch's beastmen twist reality as they themselves are twisted.



"Look how they beg for the knife! The Demonlord has trained them well."
It's never just *one* goblin.



"The jungle was here before any city. It will be here after the last city falls."
"What separates junk from treasure is imagination."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator
To understand Kaladesh, one must first understand how aether and invention flow together through the great Aether Cycle.
"Let the humans have their pantheon. We need no gods to thrive. Even a mortal such as I can capture a part of the sun's power."
The faint smell of cloves, the rustling of the wind, and a paralyzing descent into an airless, fathomless tomb.


Devouring books is only the beginning. The librarian's next.


"Nothing will cool the fire in their blood. They are too far gone. We must keep them away from our towns at any cost."
—Cosper Lowe of the Silbern Guard
"I offer you wisdom untainted by false loyalty, learning free of any guild's agenda."

"Step lightly and we might be able to use it as a bridge."
—Ib Halfheart, goblin tactician
"The spirit of Serra raised Brindri high and commanded her to keep the balance."
—*Song of All*, canto 524

From the Sardian mountains wakes ancient doom: Warrior born from a rocky womb.

After a chimeric idol attacked them, the Keldons smashed all unfamiliar statues.
Located on the opposite side of the park from the food court, for obvious reasons.
He was once one of the mightiest pit fighters alive. That description is still mostly accurate.
Abandoned years ago, the experiment continues to iterate upon itself.




Lumengrid, site of the Knowledge Pool, source of vedalken arcana.
There were no tombstones in orochi territory. Slain warriors were buried with a tree sapling, so they would become a part of the forest after death.
These beings embody the essence of true heroes long dead. Summoned from the dreamrealms, they rise to meet their enemies.
"Pathetic! I've heard more noise in a monastery. Let me hear you, Valor's Reach!"
Visitors marvel at its design, unaware of the other world that inspired it.
Just as with a peach, the first bite is always the juiciest.


Attracting a dragon's attention may be the last mistake you make.

Harthag gave a jolly laugh as he surveyed the army before him. "Ho ho ho! Midgets! You think you can stand in my way?"


With Olivia distracted, Sigarda tore free from her bindings and summoned her Host of Herons.
"I do not know which gives me more pride: the legions of soldiers marching in thunderous lockstep, or the cry of the skyknights riding their rocs like jagged lightning overhead."
—Razia
The old wizard's experiments destroyed the castle centuries ago. So why does some of the rubble look recent?

"A great warrior studies many different disciplines and takes the best from each."
—Gideon Jura
Instead of creating a tool that would be damaged by heat, the Thran built one that was charged by it.
No matter how much the slivers change, their collective might remains.
"I've been insulted by drunks in a hundred inns, but never as skillfully or annoyingly as by those blasted Brownies."
—General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox

"How truly vast this city must be, that I have traveled so far and seen so much, yet never once found the place where the buildings fail."



To hold the heavens from the earth is no curse, but a titanic responsibility.
Vindr stormchasers believe that the same ancient forces that move the winds can also move mortal minds and hearts.





"Now, *that's* a zombie!"
—Modriss of Zargoth Fen


They once sought to unite with the flame of transcendence. Now they seek only to extinguish the lights of others.
It's bigger than it thinks.


Scholars had puzzled for centuries over the ruins at Tal Terig. Its secrets had always lived within one rune-carved head.
A job well done means a rest well earned.
"The ruin of the past is the topsoil of the future."
—Sokar, former Nef-crop initiate
The Krark Clan enjoys pulling them apart just to watch them reassemble one another.
"Play no favorites. Everybody dies."
—Sparkmage saying



Gold buys death. Death earns gold.
Dressed to the 9/9s.




Bulgo paused, puzzled. What was that rustling sound, and why did he feel so stiff? And how could his *feet* be so thirsty?
A single light unleashes a hail of cleansing.
Samut's war was intensely personal. Every hour she faced enemies she once loved as friends and horrors she once revered as gods.
"Barbarian tribes with their rulers are inferior to Chinese states without them."
—Confucius, *The Analects* (trans. Lau)



When demons open a path to your front door, it's time to move.

"The sea gives up her dead as easily as the soil."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
Hunger is like the sea: deep, endless, and unforgiving.
"We train for the improbable, like lightning striking the same place twice, or striking everywhere at once."
@-Nundari, Sea Gate militia captain
"Your life is finished, your name lost, and your work forgotten. It is as though Mazeura never existed."
—*Chainer's Torment*
Karn and Hanna stood over the recovered Legacy artifacts like loving parents over sleeping children.

The rumors are horrifying; the truth is worse.
"I will make your bones into a weapon that will lay even the mighty low."
—Modriss of Zargoth Fen
No matter how deep the treasure is buried, Hunter can always sniff it out.

Frozen is frozen, whether it's with cold, terror, or both.

"A ruler wears a crown while the rest of us wear hats, but which would you rather have when it's raining?"
—Barrin, *Principia*



"We do not hide from the dragons that pretend to rule the skies. If we did, the dragons would become our rulers, and our way of life would be lost."

"You wish to learn of Nyx? Very well."
—Phenax, god of deception


"This is a fine suit, armorsmith. I will be safe from harm. If only you could forge rings to mail the rest of my people . . ."
—Lord Hilneth
The problem isn't the indrik's enthusiasm, it's Ravnica's lack of guardrails.
Fblthp had always hated crowds.

"Finally, a weapon the Boros can't confiscate!"
—Juri, proprietor of the Juri Revue
Each flower identical, every leaf and petal disturbingly exact.

Pretty, valuable, and delicious—a boggart thief's trifecta.

The power of a waterfall. The fury of an avalanche. The intellect of a gale-force wind.
Even after thousands of years, the wondrous creations of the Thran guarded the lost empire's secrets with single-minded devotion.

A rapid and catastrophic decline.





The audience always loves it, but volunteers are divided.
Spans of spines leapt from one sliver to the next, forming a deadly hedge around the *Weatherlight*.


"I teach the cubs how to kill the two-legs quickly, and why it's best for the pride."

"Is it just me, or does that meteor have teeth?"
Inside even the humblest goblin lurks the potential for far greater things—and far worse.



Those who bring nothing to the temple take nothing away.


"I wish my work could shelter everyone, yet I pray we are never so few that it does."

"Death lizard approaching, cap'n!"
—Brint Doobin, last words
"We will reveal the futility of their heresy by showing them how fragile their relics are."
—Vorinclex, Voice of Hunger
The elves of Argoth were trained to ride these creatures, even when their mounts traveled upside-down.

Takedowns in Valor's Reach are never meant to be lethal, but that doesn't mean they won't be incredibly painful.


Greatness, at any cost.
"Most people can't build decent weapons out of stone or steel. Trust the elves to do it with only mud and vines."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*
"Shackle the body, and the anguish lasts only until death. Shackle the soul, and the wicked can be punished for eternity."
@-Inquisitor Laerin

I tell you, there was so many arrows flying about you couldn't hardly see the sun. So I says to young Angus, "Well, at least now we're fighting in the shade!"
At the Astrotorium, even the dead make a living wage.
Scream: muffled. Pockets: emptied. Neck function: never the same again.

Both complement and antithesis to his older brother Urza, Mishra also mastered the intricacies of artifice. It was Mishra's strength that first gave rise to the massive Phyrexian war engines on Dominaria, and it was his weakness that pushed him, Urza, and Dominaria itself to the point of annihilation.
Perception is more pleasing than truth.



As the hedrons began to coalesce into colossal Eldrazi superstructures, the griffins were forced to seek new territory lest their aeries be crushed between the massive stone monoliths.

"Your fields will turn as black as a ghoul's tongue and fire shall be your only harvest."
—Minaldra, the Vizag Atum
Two different visions of freedom clashed at the gates of the Imperial Palace.

On the continent of Tazeem, rushing waters plunge through narrow canyons into mist-cloaked lakes.
"My grandmother had sold the rest of her jewelry long ago, but she left a particular necklace in my care: a golden chain, bearing a raven-shaped charm."



A passionate recruiter will win a war before the first arrow flies.
Jund is a world as cruel as those who call it home. Their brutal struggles scar the land even as it carves them in its image, a vicious circle spiraling out of control.
"One-eyed and frightful, the cyclops
lifted a boulder and hurled it
seaward from cliff's edge, shattering
masts and scattering sailors."
—*The Callapheia*





"Politics is a game—move a stone here, move a stone there—except sometimes the stones bleed."
—Shauku, Endbringer
It wails of buried riches and the souls lost seeking them.

"Yawgmoth is dead, and his citadels lie empty. But there will always be some who seek power at any price."
—Karn
Foul-tempered, poorly trained, and mule-stubborn, the drake is the perfect test of the master's will.
Whether gargantuans are the manifested will of Progenitus or simply the result of overabundant resources is moot when a herd of them is thundering at you.
"Beast. Defiler. The source of all my pain."
—Ihsan's Shade


For the chronatog, there is no meal like the present.






"Today's paperweight, tomorrow's leveler."
—Bruenna, Neurok leader
"That they are saved from death is immaterial. What is important is that they know the source of their benefaction."
—Radiant, archangel
Healers ultimately acquire the divine gifts of spiritual and physical wholeness. The most devout are also granted the ability to pass physical wholeness on to others.
Moss-covered statues littered the area, a macabre monument to the Basilisk's power.
"If I were the air, I wouldn't taunt the ground. It has the weight advantage."
—Konnos, Sylvok sage
"Mold could catch you."
—Suq'Ata insult

. . . that exciting . . . about . . .

"We are free. It is our duty to live well."

If the ground is smooth, the way will be rough.
—Deepwood saying

Gelfruit grows abundantly wherever Sylvok druids live, as if the Tangle knows that humans are not as hardy as the beasts or as nimble as the elves.




"I search for a vision of Zendikar that does not include the Eldrazi."
—Expedition journal entry
"Life is a series of choices between bad and worse."
—Toshiro Umezawa


They patched the holes, loaded their sharpest rocks, spanked their children one last time, and lurched off into the sunset.
It guards not a body, but a secret.
"Now everyone knows what you are."
"Yes, Boros tactics are unparalleled. But when your comrades are dying around you, inner strength must carry the day."
—Gideon Jura, to Aurelia


"I have schemed too long to be supplanted by dead gods. If I cannot have this world, no one can."
"I can't imagine what you're feeling right now, but I'll try my best."
It fears no sword and leaves no bones behind.


Such cloaks are in high demand both by assassins and by those who fear them.
"When you hear thunder on a cloudless day, take cover and brace for the coming of the storm herd."
—Skotov, Tin Street basket vendor
The raging behir reared back, opened its terrible maw . . . and collapsed in a fit of horrifying giggles.

Visit the dead, and they may return the favor.


Six feet of earth muffled his cries.

"Long ago, I enchanted an army of statues to guard Zhalfir. My homeland is gone, but its protectors remain."
—Teferi
It is the hub. We are the wheel.
—Dryad saying

Even a fragment of a powerstone contains within it not just energy, but space—vast dimensions trapped in fragile crystal.

The metal turned and blossomed with Saheeli's will, each filigreed twist bringing the temporal anchor closer to completion.





"Time and space are just new battlefields to be mastered."

Most creatures in the Krosan Forest feared the Mirari's power. A few fed upon it.
"So you see, the reckless battle strategy of the Kathorran orcs was effective, but ultimately proved to be a double-edged sword. As did their double-edged swords."


Its back bubbles like a witch's cauldron, and it smells just as vile.

"We have inherited the mysteries of the Thran, but few of the answers."
—Jhoira
"I have watched over this land since the first seedling emerged from the primeval soil."





They lament the doom that is coming to Bant without realizing the part their own leaders have played in it.
"The second wind of ascension is Reaver, slaying the unworthy."
—*Keld Triumphant*
You can't fight what you can't find.
From trinket to trauma.
The versatile "fiery gauntlet" is among the first spells young Ghitu mages learn.
Naturally inquisitive and adaptable, goblins can turn their small stature to their advantage as rogues.
"This one's for my mom, and this one's for me."







"Fynn climbed the highest peak and waited, still and silent, until the falling snow had hidden him entirely. When the great eagle flew past, the hunter's aim was true."
—*Saga of the Wisdom Seeker*
He exercises his right to bear arms.
Rootwater has become as dangerous to its denizens as to its enemies.




It teaches *you* to play dead.



Music scythes the savage beast.





The toymaker frowned in bewilderment. None of his creations had ever sneezed before.



"This party is such fun—but it's a shame to mourn just one."
—Irini Sengir


Torching Krosa would be pointless. It grows faster than it burns.



"The Brazen Coalition is a firecannon pointed at our enemies. Goblins like him are the spark to its powder."
—Admiral Beckett Brass

"Don't laugh. It works."
—Yavimaya ranger
"We suffer uneasy ground, unstable alliances, and unpredictable magic. Something you can truly trust is worth more than a chest of gold."
—Nikou, Joraga bard
"The wisest of Aysen dwell not in the Abbey, but in the laboratory."
—Taysir
It is a terrible thing when the path of the Returned leads them back to the Underworld.
Every work of art is a hit.
"The past is a ghost that haunts you from the moment it exists until the moment you don't."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*




In addition to killing peasants, punishing subordinates, and raising an army of nightmares, Braids somehow found time for her favorite hobby: petty extortion.




Don't let its appearance frighten you. Let its claws and teeth do that.
Demons lurk in the shadows of ancient ruins, spreading plague and corruption across the land.
As Narset struggled to meditate, tiny dragonlings spiraled around her, conjuring thoughts of ancient clans.
"Feeding a normal army is a problem of logistics. With zombies, it is an asset. Feeding is why they fight. Feeding is why they are feared."
—Jadar, ghoulcaller of Nephalia
"Let's just turn that off, shall we?"

"Some hid from the storm. I embraced it and learned its name."







Ob Nixilis smiled. It had been over one thousand years since his last conquest.
The Cabaretti cultivate an image of harmless hedonism, happy for the other families to underestimate their formidable firepower.

"What was heads again?"
—Mercadian magistrate
In a world of monsters, it's the stuff of nightmares.

Tedious research made the Sages of the College of Lat-Nam adept in repairing broken artifacts.



"I wish there were no use for those with my talents. I wish that I could walk Kamigawa forgotten and unneeded, with no war wounds to heal and no broken bones to mend."
The drive to hunt and feed is raw instinct for dinosaurs. The trick is simply to channel it in the right direction.

"Life can be found in all things, even things unnatural."
—Multani, maro-sorcerer



It lingers near the outposts of the Makindi Trenches, inadvertently granting another layer of defense.

Those who used reindeer as beasts of burden knew to avoid the centaurs, who raged at the enslavement of their spirit-kin.
Tahngarth relished the chance to bloody his blades on those who had ravaged his home.
If the sun ever hit the swamp, where would these scurry to?
"Lucy, you've got some spleenin' to do."
A true warrior's thoughts are of victory, not death.

The thunder of its hooves beats dreams into despair.



Naturally inquisitive and adaptable, goblins can turn their small stature to their advantage as rogues.
"As long as there's no outside food, you're good to go."

Would you trade the world for such a pet?
"I did offer them a choice . . ."
—Queen Marchesa
"They are gentle herbivores, despite their size. Approach cautiously, and hum a tune to let them know you mean no harm."
—Vivien Reid

"It has been my honor to improve on the Thran's original design. Perhaps history will remember me in some small part for my work."
—Urza, in his apprenticeship

「何ができるかという可能性に心が揺さぶられないなら、なぜストリクスヘイヴンに来たのか？」
—-プリズマリの学部長、ナサーリ

Atarka conquered Qadat, the Fire Rim, long ago, winning over its efreet with a promise to spread the glory of fire to all the world.

"Now they always say 'Congratulations'"

Birds frozen in flight. Sea turned to glass. Tolaria hidden in a mirror.



While it's true most Dragons are cruel, the Shivan Dragon seems to take particular glee in the misery of others, often tormenting its victims much like a cat plays with a mouse before delivering the final blow.





"I've yet to discover the ruin that can keep me out."

Inner strength is never seen until it makes all the difference.
Their calls unheeded by the withered forests, nature shamans channeled the life force of their brethren.
Guarding the ship is the Thornwinds' first concern. Getting along with the locals ranks fourth or fifth at best.


". . . Jiang Wei alone still strove with might and main: / Nine times more he fought the north-in vain. . . ."
"Throw the bodies out. They'll just weigh down the frame."
—Rolf, Argivian mechanic


"You'd better be worth it."
—Liliana Vess





The need to obey was inscribed on every plate in their bodies.



By definition, madness ends in one of two ways: clarity . . . or death.


The wafting smells are both scrumptious and suspicious.








Destiny is a flickering path among tangled possibilities.

A carriage crafted from the finest materials. Horses bred from the finest stock. Skulls taken from the finest foes.
Living below a flowstone foundry produces a disproportionate number of fire mages among the *il*.
Occasionally a member of the Institute of Arcane Study acquires a taste for worldly pleasures. Seldom do they have trouble finding employment.

"The bane of countless shattered weapons, each a failure to slay her."
—Daghatar the Adamant


A wurm knows nothing of deception. If it opens its mouth, it plans to eat you.


The Blessed Sleep doesn't come easily to a mind chained by regrets.
Blood seeps into the stone, and darkness emerges.

"No doubt the arbiters would put you away, after all the documents are signed. But I will have justice now."
—Alovnek, Boros guildmage


"Hunter's fire" was meant for slaying monsters in the Ulvenwald, but that never stopped Ralen from showing it off.

"Birds reach all parts of the world," said Barrin. "They will make excellent scouts."


"I am an artist, a builder, a creator . . . I create the biggest explosions around."
—Krol, goblin furnace-priest



"Pretty Falcon, friend to Soraya. Will you send her my greetings?"
—Gemma, Willow Priestess
"An entire order of mages who draw their power from Ravnica's smog? Yet another indicator of our world's decay."
—Dravash, dowsing shaman
When giants rise from their long slumbers, they rarely remember how fragile the waking world can be.



The best cure for a big ego is a little failure.





"They are aberrations who have turned on everything we hold sacred. Let them be cast out."
—Ailheen, Speaker of the Council

「五つの太陽よ！軌道計算がどんなに複雑か想像できる？そんな方程式に挑戦できるというなら、何だって差し出すわ！」
——クアンドリクスの魔導生徒、ジモーン




A moment of distraction, an hour off course.


There's no prepared like overprepared.
Sometimes gestures of support are small. Sometimes not.
Those who examine the amulet too closely have been known to become part of its ornate carvings.
Enchanters add layer upon layer of complexity to the world around them.
Once you've been dragged down the currents of time, you'll never quite trust your own permanence again.
"The Okiba Gang! Night-cursed thieves and assassins! I've had enough of their meddling! Triple the guard!"
—Marrow-Gnawer






"If we die, we die. But we cannot let him win."
—Ajani Goldmane


Might doesn't make right, but it does win the fight.
"No matter how big your champion, theirs is bigger. No matter how great your numbers, theirs are greater. No matter how voracious your appetite, they are hungrier. That is why the Eldrazi will win."
—Kalitas, thrall of Ulamog




"Fair fight? How could it be a fair fight? We're Akroans. They're not."
"Loss has no meaning here. You cannot take from those who have nothing."
Connected as artificer and invention, bonded as rider and steed.
"Think of an insult so vicious, so vulgar, that you hesitate to speak it aloud. The strongest, most aggressive inklings are born from such scorn."
—Embrose, Silverquill dean




The arbiter Galanda Feudkiller judges Lorwyn's squabbles from a lofty perspective.
A devil's hands are never idle.


Maybe a little *too* convincing.


"Don't worry, there's plenty for everyone."
—Vickon, Eleventh Company battlemage
"I can show you indulgence without regret, delight without boundaries, gratifications beyond count."
—Sha'ris, Deacon of Lust
The key to winning any fight is simply staying alive.
"Wipe Sheoldred's spies from the sky. She'll see the result of our vision soon enough."
—Glissa
Rats and vultures devour. It desecrates.
"I should have died that day, but I suffered not a scratch. I awoke in a lake of blood, none of it apparently my own."
—*The War Diaries*

Some kami attacks during the war were rife with trickery, subterfuge, and subtlety, draining hope and pride from the mortal world. Other attacks were a lot more straightforward.
To be king, Numsgil did in Blog, who did in Unkful, who did in Viddle, who did in Loll, who did in Alrok . . . ."




The daredevil racers of the Derby Crows, long at odds with the Consulate, were quick to join the renegades in open revolt.



"Let my wisdom give you wings."





Made you look.

Pass me from soul to soul, / soldier to herder, herder to beast, beast to soil / until I am everywhere. / Then pass me those souls.
—Totem inscription (translated)



Fblthp decided to get some sleep, nestled among the plush Ajanis until morning.
"The secret is simply to know what you're going to do before you even see the possibilities."
—Porlema'ko, mind mage


Ancient footfalls echo in her head, their timeless rhythm guiding the present.

"Vampires have done nothing but take from us. Tonight, we reclaim what's ours!"


After lightning struck the cliffs, the ore became iron, the iron became steel, and the steel became greaves. The lightning never left.

Its sting hurts, but death is strangely painless.


"Must not all things at the last be swallowed up in death?"
—Plato, Phædo, trans. Jowett

"Water is in the air, the trees, and the earth. Understand its motion, speak its language, and the subtle currents that flow through all living things will fall under your command."
Like his mother before him, Darigaaz gave his life defending Dominaria from the tyranny of self-styled "gods."
"Think of the problems we'll face if you uproot entire continents," said Urza.
"I have," replied Teferi, "but the alternative is worse."

An army of squirrels is still an army.

Snaking remnants of nature directed by a body of thought and progress, the oracles embody all that is Simic.


Only the most pious and devoted Imperial servants are granted the posthumous honor of becoming servo-skulls.

"Walking the path of the kami only leaves you with singed feet."
—Soratami saying
The only feeling greater than hurling something a mile is crushing something else with it that was really, really irritating you.
"We learned this at a dear price: once you cross the great river, get through the Yavimaya forest at top speed."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry
Ashnod served as Mishra's confidante while he led Fallaji weapons development before the Brothers' War. Whereas Mishra works in metals and stone, however, Ashnod works in living flesh. She sees all living things as prototype machines; her "improvements" to them make her as feared by allies as by enemies.




"There's wisdom to be gained in death—whether it be one's own or someone else's."
—Jarad, Golgari Lich-Lord

Created to destroy Dominia, Demons can sometimes be bent to a more focused purpose.
History may be written by the triumphant, but it's often rewritten by the troublesome.
On the wild steppes, history vanishes in the dust. Only the mythmakers remain to say what was, and is, and will be.
"All can't be lost. Nissa has shown me that."
"In memories, we can find our deepest reserves of strength."



His name means "he who paints the earth red."


"Consider this a high alert, people. Permission to destroy on sight. Either we take it down or it'll take down the Fair."
—Pav, gremlin watch
Ivold gasped in surprise. Either a very strange insect had crawled onto one of the lenses or he was seeing geists at last!
"I agreed to light his way as long as he always had my back."
—Squill, Mistford pixie
From a distance, dormant dragon engines can be mistaken for harmless statues. By the time you get close enough to spot the scorch marks, it's too late.
The wise pay as much attention to what they throw away as to what they keep.
What are the orders of a king or the demands of a creed next to such melodies?


"My psychic blade cuts the mind and severs thoughts. Even if you survive, you'll never remember I was here."

The earth cannot hold that which magic commands.

Even through the Mirari's voice, the elves still hear the call of their kinship.
"I love what they've done with the place."
—Liliana Vess


Liliana developed a fondness for the moment when roaring becomes squealing.
"A wish can be controlled. Dreams are for more chaotic, and ungoverned by rationale."
—*Hurkyl's Metaphysics, vol. II*

"We can't control enemies who have no regard for their own survival."
—Arrester Lavinia, Tenth Precinct
"We protect our homelands. Why should they not protect us?"

"It's good to learn from your failures, but I prefer to learn from the failures of others."
—Jace Beleren

The College of Lat-Nam is often forced to expel students whose experiments grow too risky or too cruel.


"I'll see your three dragons and raise you two fists!"

"Everything around here has cut a deal with gravity."
—Gerrard of the Weatherlight



". . . But I'm not tired!"
They came from all walks of life, from every part of Zendikar, and they returned with one unifying cause.
"What is crueler? To let a wound of the heart fester, or to simply cut it out?"
—Crovax

"Does your passion for power consume your soul?"
—Watnik, master glassblower

"Improvement is a consequence of practice."
—Stitcher Geralf
First the insult, then the injury.


"It is *not* sad," Radiant chided the lesser angel. "It is right. Every society must have its outcasts."
The merfolk may rule the waters, but hippos have never had much respect for authority.

"From the swallows, I learned how to ride the winds to anywhere, and from my tears, I mastered how to harness the water."
The ground trembled in a violent purr.
"Only victory shall stop our charge!"
"The Mardu are like the gore swine. We are wild, hunt in packs, and rarely clean the blood from our blades."
—Vallash, Mardu warrior
Though buried and muffled, nature's whisper still called to Nissa.

Nature grows solutions to its problems.

"Just as the noble soul calls virtue to itself, the evil soul summons harm."
—Teachings of Eight-and-a-Half-Tails
The epidemic insanity had a lasting effect on certain barbarians—but no one noticed.
Offerings must first be freed from the prison of their own skin before they're welcomed into the Flesh Singularity.

Legend has it that meteor craters are haunted by the ghosts of those who died on impact.
Vampires are now masters of their own fates, commanders of their own legions.
Just as the evil ones approached to slay Justina, she cast a great spell, imbuing her weapons with her own life force. Thus she fulfilled the prophecy: "In the death of your savior will you find salvation."

A single seed unleashes a flurry of growth.
Murky Otarian tides hide the forgotten treacheries of the Phyrexian war.
In establishing the Shu kingdom, Liu Bei's forces fought against Ma Chao at Chengdu. Eventually, Ma Chao surrendered and became one of Liu Bei's Tiger Generals.


It beckons silently, waiting in the darkness.
On Ikoria, reactive magic can make the difference between barely grazed and really dead.
"Well, how could I know they'd explode?"
—Gregel, township militia
Once heard, the battle song of an angel becomes part of the listener forever.
"When the Hour of Promise arrives, the God-Pharaoh will tear down the Hekma, for its protection will be needed no longer."
—*The Accounting of Hours*
He has the biggest bashing stick, so it's a safe bet he's the leader.

"When good men die their goodness does not perish, / But lives though they are gone."
—Euripides, *Termenidae*, trans. Morgan

In dark times, Truth bears a blade.




"It's a fine way to travel, if you don't mind the smell."



"I do not need to pierce your heart to still its beating."
"I never thought I'd be so glad to see two tons of beak and claws bearing down on me at the speed of an arrow."
—Mirela, Azorius hussar


"The first birth celebrates life. The second birth mocks it."
—Mystic elder

The skyhunters were born when the first leonin gazed at the heavens and wished to hunt the birds overhead.


When your enemies are denied soldiers, they are denied victory.
"I appreciate the depravity of noble designs turned to devious ends."
—Tezzeret
"For the love of the seven brass gods, it's a city of academics! How are they doing this?"
—Sharaman, Urzan lieutenant

The wardens guard the sacred documents of Tarkir's history, though they are forbidden to read the words.
"Should I fall, take up our standard and carry on. The Legion must always prevail."
Titania rewards all who honor the forest by making them a living part of it.
"Yeah, they've got a lot of meat. The only downside to eating 'em is that you often find human bones and body parts inside."
—Jaby, Silundi Sea nomad
In the erupting heart of Bogardan, it's hard to tell hurtling volcanic rocks from pouncing volcanic beasts.
The Hold, an illegal research facility in a derelict merchant ship, became a wellspring of renegade intelligence.
"Everything is in place. Nothing can happen that isn't part of my plan."
—Urza

Two bodies, twice the malice.
The pull of the tide star holds eternal sway.
"Heed the lessons of our time: the forms of water may move the land itself and hold captive the fires within."
—Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran royal mage


Tolarians teach the theory of pyromancy. The Ghitu prefer applied research.


"Neither time nor death could keep me from upholding our pact."

Though small, goblins can hold their own in a fight. Foolhardy confidence goes a long way.
"Oi oi oi, me gotta hurt in 'ere, Oi oi oi, me smell a ting is near, Gonna bosh 'n gonna nosh 'n da hurt'll disappear." —Traditional


After the fall of Trokair, Farrel and his followers formally broke their ties with the rest of Icatia.

"Words are a waste of time. Destruction is a language everyone understands."
—Sarkhan Vol
Once a century, the levelers rip through every corner of Mirrodin, obeying the commands of an unseen master.

Defense laser emplacements are usually located at high altitude, where the rarified air does little to impede their range of destructive efficacy.
"Hey, wait! That's my boot!"
—Darijo, Ivy Street ruffian
"They groaned, they stirred, they all uprose, Nor spake, nor moved their eyes; It had been strange, even in a dream, To have seen those dead men rise."
—Samuel Taylor Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
"The slivers became adept at provoking a fear response in other species."
—Hastric, Thunian scout
"This world will not be tamed."




"My eyes are my strongest feature."

Each flower identical, every leaf and petal disturbingly exact.


As demons are drawn to suffering, angels are drawn to acts of benevolence.



"I was promised an afterlife, not this. Samut was right. The God-Pharaoh lied."
—Djeru, former Tah-crop initiate

Hunters lure the stripling boar into the open, hoping to trap greater prey.
It doesn't twist words. It twists worlds.
The barbarians of Jund believe the bottomless tar pits extend forever into other, darker worlds.
Early testing failed because the clones were all thumbs.
"The Eternals can recognize faces. They just think I look like a blue minotaur."

"Power comes in many shapes. But real power does the shaping."
—Abaddon the Despoiler

A retreat to nature can inspire even the most jaded inventor.


"While most overworlders fortunately don't realize this, Gargoyles can be most delicious, providing you have the appropriate tools to carve them."
—The Underworld Cookbook, by Asmoranomardicadaistinaculdacar

They fletch their arrows with the feathers of angels.



Only when you've given up the search will the caves yield their secrets.

His mind was lost long before his flesh.


If you try to sneak up on a rootwalla, you'll suddenly find yourself dealing with twice the lizard.

"Hesitation is for the faithless. My belief lends me speed."


The province of Jingzhou was the fulcrum of the three kingdoms. At separate times it was coveted and controlled by the Wu, the Shu, and the Wei.
Ebon leaders soon realized that non-human races often had special talents that could be exploited.

After the Battle of Pharagax Bridge, the Champion spent many months among the leonin of Oreskos. She found that they were quick to take offense, not because they were thin-skinned, but because they were always eager for a fight.
—*The Theriad*




"Our glorious infection has taken hold."
—Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite
"Every footfall on the forest floor is a heartbeat sending strength into my veins."
Dwarves never worry about who watches their backs.
"The surface of the land is blanched with salt, but the soil beneath is reddened with death—a fertile ground for necromancy."
—Lim-Dûl the Necromancer
"Somehow it warps the Æther. It brings a strange weight, a blockade in the flow of spellcraft."
—Noyan Dar, Tazeem lullmage


"Under the suns, Mirrodin kneels and begs us for perfection."
—Geth, Lord of the Vault


"Izzet contraptions pollute our lands. Burn them down, kill the makers, cleanse the earth."
—Nedja, Gruul shaman




When Urza betrayed the Sardian dwarves, they called upon the might of their neighbors for aid.
"One need only look at the inhabitants of this world to see that they are forged halfway to perfection. All they need is a whisper of the Glorious Word."
—Urabrask the Hidden

Squee bounced up and down. "I sees a horsey, an' a piggy, an' a—"
"If you don't shut up," hissed Mirri, "you'll see a kidney and a spleeny."
The irritable drakes are solitary nesters. Even brooding females barely contain the urge to attack their own young.
"First through the Riftstone was Genesis—and the world was lifeless no more."
—*Scroll of Beginnings*
"Who says you cannot touch the stars?"

Friends teach what you want to know. Enemies teach what you *need* to know.
After the researcher's astonishing success, his assistants spent six hours finding a way to return the specimens safely to the ground.
"It takes but one spark to ignite a parched forest. Our hearts, I fear, are too dry for this new visitor."
—Elek Longbeard

"Everything around here has cut a deal with gravity."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*

Battered and beaten by years of salt and claw, he never ceased to walk, and to seed. Only now, in this time of rebirth, do his seeds take root.
Nothing is sacred to rats. Everything is simply another meal.

Atarka serving-goblins coat themselves with grease imbued with noxious herbs, hoping to discourage their ravenous masters from adding them to the meal.

Jace tumbled down the waterfall and plunged deep into his past.

Moving without sound, swift figures pass through branches and undergrowth completely unhindered. One with the trees around them, the Dryads of Shanodin Forest are seen only when they wish to be.
Those who intrude upon the Dimir seldom remember that they have done so.

"Consider my debt to your kin paid in full."
—Idrol, Guul Draz assassin
"And who will stop me? You?"
"It's not the darkness I fear but dull and numbing shades of gray."
—Sydri, galvanic genius

"Aim for an eye. Better they never see you."
"Buying old, worn out junk. Selling marvels of real value."




"At harvest are seeds of next year sown."
A dragon's scale can be carved into a mighty shield, provided you can procure a dragontooth to cut it.

Theodar strode the battle lines, snatching swords with his bare hands and casting them aside until all cowered before him.

"Will not the mountains quake and hills melt at the coming of the darkness? Share this vision with your enemies, Lim-Dûl, and they shall wither."
—Leshrac, Walker of Night

It surveys the withering landscape, waiting for a victory only it can see.
Seeing it coming a mile away is little comfort if you can't get out of range in time.

Dreams are just one more form of torment.



"Until the Rebellion, thrulls served their masters faithfully—even at the cost of their own lives."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. II*

Dawnglove bloom is a potent nostrum, but the dawnglow brewed from its sap is nothing less than life itself.

When Asha left Bant, she ensured that the world would have protection and order in her absence.
"Why keep such trinkets? They only add weight to your travels."
"Mindlessness is not weakness. When we are lost to hunger we are unstoppable."
—Drana, Kalastria bloodchief
"My rule persists beyond death itself."
"If creating the Eternals was Bolas's plan here, what is his plan for the Eternals?"
—Jace Beleren
"She knows every step of this coastline, both above and below the surface, and she has hideouts all along the way. She will get you there."
—Jori En, expedition leader
"Every creation carries a piece of its creators. Their knowledge, their dreams, their soul. That is the best part."

Phyrexia wastes nothing. Its food chain is a spiraling cycle.


"I guess what they say is true. What doesn't kill you makes you stronger. Or at least stranger."
—Captain Eberhart
Forged from what it forges.
"Safe passage requires only a simple answer to a simple question, traveler."

"Your mind was a curious mix of madness and genius. I just took away the genius."
—Jace Beleren
"They groaned, they stirred, they all uprose, Nor spake, nor moved their eyes; It had been strange, even in a dream, To have seen those dead men rise."
—Samuel Taylor Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
Argivia's clockwork fortifications are the stuff of legend, reminding all on Dominaria that ingenuity has saved them before and can do so again.
"Is it not the embodiment of our aspirations?"
—Prokopios, astronomer of Meletis
Is it six?

2009 Vintage Championship Winner



Goblins journey to the sacrificial peaks in pairs so that the rare survivor might be able to relate the details of the other's grisly demise.



Storm crow descending, winter unending. Storm crow departing, summer is starting.

"I will be your most demanding master, Liliana. But I have great things in mind for you."

After the zombie attack, crops withered on the vine, and the thriving village became a ghost town almost overnight.


"Ah yes, I remember that one. I turned him inside out and cast his soul into an endless nightmare a few centuries ago."
—Braids



After the Travails, Runechanters set about repairing twisted symbols of Avacyn as the first step in restoring faith in the Church.


The Orzhov are not the only religious tradition on Ravnica, nor the oldest.

Sometimes knowledge takes on a life of its own.

Two little goblins, out in the sun. Down came a griffin, and then there was one.
No cartouches to earn. No afterlife to enter. Only the glory of a well-struck blow and the growing pile of felled enemies at her feet.



"I watched a ship sail right through it. I thought it was harmless . . . until I saw what it had done to the crew."
—Bruenna, Neurok leader
The mizzium-sphere array drove her mind deep into the thought field, where only the rarest motes of genius may be plucked.

Halvar united the spirits of all the clans into a single, devastating force.

"They bind us with their laws. We free ourselves with nature's fist."
—Nikya of the Old Ways


The goblin word for "flying" is more accurately translated as "falling slowly."

Kidnappers caught in Havengul are given two choices: languish in prison or become rat catchers. The smart ones go to prison.



"Should you a Rat to madness tease Why ev'n a Rat may plague you..." —Samuel Coleridge, "Recantation"
"Such fuss over machines, Gerrard. Remember that you are the prize of the Legacy. Throw away your toys!"
—Orim, Samite healer
Myra bought beetles because they were cheaper than rubber ducks. Now the infestation is her largest expense.

"The true dishonor for a soldier is surviving the war."
—Telim'Tor


"From this day forward, we confront this world together, lifting each other up."





"This little prize will cover your head, your spells, your bets, and your behind!"
—Pashad ibn Asim, Suq'Ata trader

Slivers are often seen toying with enemies they capture, not out of cruelty, but to fully learn their physical capabilities.

Foolishly, Najib retreated to his castle at El-Abar; the next morning he was dead. In just one night, the dwarven forces had reduced the mighty walls to mere rubble.
Built in honor of Alara's creatures, the ziggurat vanished long ago. When Progenitus awakened, the temple emerged again.


Going down with the ship is just the beginning.

Phyrexian or Mirran, most goblins stick to the job they know best.
In front of every great wizard is a doomed apprentice.
"A creature of stone was never meant to fly. And I see the Ulvenwald agrees with me."
—Halana, Kessig ranger
"Where a lesser mind sees junk, I see infinite potential."


Growth has no limits.

They take a blood oath to die in battle. So far none have failed to fulfill the promise.
Members of the Simic Combine adapt themselves to suit whatever role they feel drawn to.
"Death tried to uncrown me. But now I return, king of a greater realm."
"Next time, try something more appropriate for your skill level."
—Barrin, Tolarian archmage


Despite their noble heritage, the pirates of the Deadeye Fleet are known for underhanded tactics and despicable trickery.
"The dragon wing of night o'erspreads the earth."
—*Troilus and Cressida*, William Shakespeare
Wurms compete for nesting grounds near the Radix. The young who hatch closest have the best chance for survival.

Only Rushwood is vast enough to swallow this creature whole.

From the seeds of faith, great forests grow.
While it's true most dragons are cruel, the Shivan dragon seems to take particular glee in the misery of others, often tormenting its victims much like a cat plays with a mouse before delivering the final blow.
"The centaurs are truly free. Never will they be tamed by temptation or controlled by fear. They live in total harmony, a feat not yet achieved by our kind."
—Ramal, sage of Westgate

Rumor holds that powerful artifacts and untold wealth are hidden away in Ramazith's Tower, and today you plan to find out for yourself.

Each small blaze she sets jogs her memory, letting her piece together the mystery of her own fiery end.
Esper is an expansive canvas painted by precise, controlling hands.
"My lance was once wielded by Venerable Tarrian. In his name and by his might, I cast you down!"
Although greatly prized among falconers, the Zephyr Falcon is capricious and not easily tamed.

There is always a moment of trepidation before opening a message capsule, for fear of the judgment that might be contained within.



When wielded by a true believer, it matters little whether the sword is a relic or a replica.


"Let my strength harden your resolve."

Trained by the Imperials but disillusioned by their rigidity, he gave his heart—and his swords—to the Asari Uprising.
"Tricks and treats, souls and sweets! On wooded path, whom shall we meet?"
It is all the things that humanity was not meant to know.


To the Golgari, anything buried is treasure.

"Gargantuans die not in moments but in moons. There is still time to aid this noble ancient."
That which lasts longest serves best.
Fear the patient devil, the one who is calm in the midst of chaos. Beware the silent devil, the one whose cackle does not mingle with the others.


"If I do nothing else, I will protect my people."
—Teferi




An Izzet experiment begins with a "what if," gets approved with a "why not," and concludes with a "eureka!"




Fire never dies alone.







Blessed by the hands of Jin-Gitaxias.
"I heard their eerie howling, the wolves calling their kindred across the frozen plains."
—Onean scout
"Avacyn's protection is everywhere. From the holy church to the sacred glade, all that we see is under her blessed watch."

"While, like a ghastly rapid river, Through the pale door, A hideous throng rush out forever, And laugh—but smile no more."
—Edgar Allan Poe, "The Haunted Palace"

"There is no time for pain when this beast leaves its terrible sting."
—Jaeuhl Carthalion, Juniper Order Advocate
"If you will not pour your drink out for me, I shall pour mine out for you."
She reaches beyond the physical realm, touching the ideals from which all creatures draw their power.


Both his rank and his scars were earned in single combat against a cave bear.
Feldon found the first of these canes frozen in the Ronom Glacier.



As the Eldrazi adapted to the jungles of Zendikar, some took on the tactics of more familiar predators.

"No unauthorized summoning. No writing in the library books. And absolutely no indoor dueling!"
"Death tried to uncrown me. But now I return, king of a greater realm."
"The workshops are silent. Our creations have been seized. They have killed what made us alive."
—Pia Nalaar

Its light exposes enemies and lays secrets bare.
"Neither blade nor tempest can assail the serenity of a tranquil mind."
—*The Turrau Carvings*

No clan is as adept at saying "go away" as the Temur.


An old and powerful wizard living on the mysterious isle of Tolaria, Barrin is the teacher who trained the young Ertai. He is also Hanna's father, but for reasons known only to the two of them neither acknowledges the other—or their strained relationship.
She yearned to walk on dry land so she might take her vengeance there.
"Light from the Null Moon took form—a mirage made real, alone in grandeur, isolated in a world that once had been its own."
—*Fall of the Thran*


A troll's greatest weapon is its ability to emerge unexpectedly from the landscape.

Young vampires gorge themselves at every meal, but their elders have learned to savor the smallest bite.
A righteous sovereign makes for a blessed realm.




The strength of Bant's caste system is the unfailing loyalty of its meekest members.


As with everything else, goblins believe fortifications benefit from as many spiky bits as possible.
"You can run from your pain, but you will tire before it does."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*





The stench in the hovel was overpowering; something loathsome was cooking. Occasionally something surfaced in the thick paste, but my host would casually push it down before I could make out what it was.
Tovolar's howlpack had scattered, but the Dire-Strain survivors were still on the hunt.
The milk bottle toss is closed until the rules can be amended.



It sees itself in all of its creations.
"From the first touch, I know exactly what the metal wants to be."



Known for their hit single "Your Wait from This Point Is Seven Hours."


"Yawgmoth's corpse is a wound in the universe. His foul blood seeps out, infecting the land with his final curse."
—Lord Windgrace



Every branch a crossroads, every vine a swift steed.




The continent of Guul Draz is a geothermal swampland reeking of heat and decay.

Griffins nest in precarious places, so fledglings often find themselves taking their first flights at surprising moments.
Although long since dead, the banished dissenters finally took their vengeance.







"Stay close! It's just a little farther."
It started as a mere drop of water. The Magic Mirror crystallized it into much more.

The most successful of Simic creations is cytoplasm, a living, symbiotic substance that feeds off genetic rhythms and strengthens its host in return.


"When the forest walks, it's too late to run."
—Horent, Khalni druid
"It was right here a second ago . . ."



Dwarves may teach at the speed of stone, but their results are solid.






"Yawgmoth," Freyalise whispered as she set the bomb, "now you will pay for your treachery."
The strongest of the pride are measured not by the steel in their hands but by the steel in their souls.
"This storm will calm. We must believe that."
In the hearts of mortals, in the pages of ancient lore, in the deep, forgotten places of the universe . . . Chaos awaits.



"I'm not indecisive. I just don't like to limit my options."
—Maxti, pyromancer





She protects the sacred groves from blight, drought, and the Unbeholden.
"Your mind belongs to the Emperor now."
Shadow lances are crafted from harvested souls. The more wicked the sinner, the keener the blade.


It surveys the withering landscape, waiting for a victory only it can see.



The Dimir would hire her, if only they knew where she lived. The Azorius would condemn her, if only they knew her name.
No matter the timeline, some legends will endure.
"What you attempt to pull from the aether, I can spread onto the wind."
—Jace Beleren
"I told Jace that Ravnica would fall apart if he didn't take his responsibilities seriously. I didn't want to be right."



The earth shook in support of their cause, offering a champion of its own.



Every seed planted is another lesson the forest can teach us.
The broad avenues and graceful spires of Park Heights are the playground of the affluent. After nightfall, they also make a fine hunting ground.
Some lycanthropes wish they could abandon their weak human shapes and revel in the power of the wolf.
"What is mana but possibility, an idea not yet given form?"
—Jhoira, master artificer
"This creature has innate perceptiveness. It knows when to rise and when to vanish into the tides."
—Jestus Dreya, *Of Elements and Eternity*

As you sail past the imposing Seatower of Balduran, you realize that breaking your friend out of that prison will be much harder than you thought.


After the Battle of Liet Field, the white sun crested above Taj-Nar, bringing hope to all who survived the carnage.
"(Z—>)90° — (E—N²W)90°t = 1"




A blazing sun that never sets.

A griffin is not just an eagle's wings and a lion's claws. It is also the fiercest of hearts.
"All peoples treasure a place where the weary traveler may drink in peace."
—Ajani Goldmane




The River Heralds would wreck a thousand ships to keep intruders from finding the golden city.



"The secrets of our world will be mine."
"Unwavering and loyal, they represent stability in uncertain times."
—Rem Karolus, Slayer of Angels


She remembers every word spoken, from the hero's oath to the baby's cry.
"No bird soars too high, if he soars with his own wings."
—William Blake, *The Marriage of Heaven and Hell*

Like so many Thran relics, the wurm engine kept operating long after its creators were gone.


"We leonin have come to rule the plains by taking to the skies."
—Raksha Golden Cub
The Izzet's plans to exploit the undercity ran into a few stubborn obstacles.

"Interesting . . . This mortal being seems to have been blessed with Qilin's essence."
—Mu Yanling's journal
When nightstalkers sing, nothing in creation sleeps.

Instinctively drawn to the light of its "mother-sun," each slith follows that sun's path around Mirrodin.
"Wait, is that a secret door? I can't tell for sure . . . there's some blood in the way."
The cat warriors recognized this Jedit's face, but not his fierce loyalty to Efrava.

"The treasures of the ancients belong in museums, not in the grubby hands of grave robbers."

"I don't know why the little one was so mad. He said to put him down, and I put him down."
"Rise, my pretty thing. Why rot in the river when you can serve at my bidding?"
"We are never without guidance, if we but seek it."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter
Gisela cornered the murderous demon among the graves of the dead villagers. "A fitting end," she murmured as she raised her sword.


"Just as an Herbalist heals a wound, so must we heal the rift between Balduvia and Kjeldor."
—King Darien of Kjeldor

When the Boros Legion attacks, swiftblades enter the fray first. They pick off the archers and mages, softening the enemy front before the flame-kin and giants go in.

"The war saw the ogres emerge from their caves, reeking of blood, with the power of oni in their veins."
—*Observations of the Kami War*
True, Gargox had blinded himself for life, but the glass eyes never lost.
"Four things that never meet do here unite
To shed my blood and to ravage my heart,
A radiant brow and tresses that beguile
And rosy cheeks and a glittering smile."
—*The Arabian Nights*, trans. Haddawy
"In the heart of Llanowar the magic is so strong that trees cannot stay rooted."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight*
For the right price, he'll unlock your path to the throne.

All the loyalty of the Auriok with only a trace of their self-righteousness.


It wasn't long until the elves had developed a use for every part of the Eldrazi.
"There's never a good time for a disaster or an attack. That's why we're here."
—Oren, militia captain

From concept to paper to reality.
There is a sanctuary that reveals itself only to those graced by the *eludha*—the mystical connection between bonder and monster.
"The numbers of Nyxborn among us have swelled. Is this a sign of the gods' favor, or does it portend something else?"



"Eventually, everything returns to silence."
—Zarra, lullmage

"Give me a sword and I'll kill a few enemies. But give me a hammer and a fiery forge, and I'll turn the tide of battle."


Sometimes you die a glorious death with your sword held high. Sometimes you're just target practice.

Stitching is an ever-evolving field, with each new advancement reaching a new height of horror.



"Urabrask may suspect our surveillance, but he cannot stop it."
—Avaricta, Gitaxian sective
"Even if we defeat it, what remains to be saved?"
—Glissa Sunseeker
Fire Elementals are ruthless infernos, annihilating and consuming their foes in a frenzied holocaust. Crackling and blazing, they sear swift, terrible paths, leaving the land charred and scorched in their wake.



On Naya, ambition and treachery are scarce, hunted nearly to extinction by the awe owed to terrestrial gods.



His roots reach deep and grip hard.

It does not wear a crown or sit on a throne of gold, but those who have witnessed its power hail it nonetheless.
"Through even our darkest days, we must never cease creating. Each new invention brings value to the world, be it beauty, utility, or both."
—Rashmi, aether-seer

"Eyes see only what is possible. A trained mind can explore the impossible."
—Kefnet, god of knowledge
The Voldaren have begun demanding blood offerings from the villagers in their territory. Their agents arrive from the sky to collect the ceremonial bowls in eerie silence.
"As the traitor hurried across the courtyard, its eyes snapped open. It was time to pay the queen a visit."
—*Beyond the Great Henge*
Opening Orazca unleashed more horrors than just the Immortal Sun.


Rimerunners set off avalanches to immobilize foes as well as to create more challenging slopes.


The Izzet quickly suspended their policy of lifetime guarantees.


Scarecrows only go so far in sending the message to stay away.


"Your friends stayed quiet, and look what happened to them. You feeling a little more talkative yet?"

The *Weatherlight* dragged the *Predator* behind it, the cradle hauling the casket.
Blood magic is more artery than science.
Every part of the gate was reclaimed from forgotten ruins and imbued with new purpose by the Swarm.
When it awoke, the worms of the earth hissed in a chorus of beckoning.

"Shadimir was as surprised as he was relieved when the blow turned aside."
—Afari, *Tales*
"Dragons in flight seldom expect company."
—Kadri, Dromoka warrior
"The spirits of the Whispering Woods are mysterious and mercurial. Follow one, and you're just as likely to end up at the center of the forest as you are at your own front door."
—Greensleeves, High Wizard of the Domains






By appearing in places miles apart at the same time, Zuo Ci exhibited the mystic's ability to "shrink the land."

"You don't survive in the wild by standing in plain sight."
—Garruk Wildspeaker

The beetles feed not on the flesh of corpses but on the metal, grinding out the iron and steel to add to their own bulky shells.
"Being all-knowing is a matter of remembering which things it is crucial to forget."
Strategies don't come easily to the boggarts' feral minds, but full-on assault hasn't failed them yet.

The famed hunting hounds of House Cecani continue to prove the quality of their pedigree.
As the green sun crowned, Phyrexian prophecies glowed on the Tree of Tales.

"I thought the day had brought enough horrors for our ragged band, but the night was far worse."
—Lucilde Fiksdotter, leader of the Order of the White Shield
The letters arrive, all sealed and read.
Using thermal updrafts and gravity currents, drakes eat and sleep in the air. Some never touch the ground from birth until death.
Our war is against suffering, not against those who cause it.
—Samite creed


"Some of the other guys dared me to touch it, but I knew it weren't no ordinary hunk o' rock." —Norin the Wary
When they land on you, all you can think about is tearing them off.
Words describing it fail. Pages relating it shrivel. Tales recounting it end.

"Damned crows and their endless squawking . . . blocks out the voices in my head . . ."
—Hermit of Hanne Hall




"The beauty of mental attacks is that your victims never remember them."
—Volrath

Chandra was driven by her anger, directed particularly at the man who had taken her father from her.
Built on the very ground where the Ten signed the Guildpact, the tower is a monument to the past and a reminder of who holds power in the present.

What it lacks in backbone, it makes up for in cruelty.


"The visions haunt me. I see the end of the world, brought on by the search for the Immortal Sun."
—Shaper Pashona


"Every footfall on the forest floor is a heartbeat sending strength into my veins."

These beings embody the essence of true heroes long dead. Summoned from the dreamrealms, they rise to meet their enemies.

"Well, at least it's a lovely view."
Even dragons fear its silken strands.


"Put down your bows, you fools! Arrows only make it angry!"
—Callia, Hyrax Tower scout
Raugrin meets the sea with jaws wide, its coast spiked with teeth of crystal and granite.


"I'll leave subtlety to the rich."


"Light a torch and deliver this letter" were his instructions, which he unfortunately reversed.
All the books were dusty with disuse, save the one titled *Camouflage and Its Practical Applications*.






"The chill, to him who breathed it, drew / Down with his blood, till all his heart was cold."
—Alfred, Lord Tennyson, *Idyls of the King*
On Bant, a sigil is both a prize of honor and a bond of duty. The one who bears it may be called to fulfill that charge at any moment.
"I enjoy a good joke as much as the next guy."
—Commodore Guff
"This sword has many names. You may call it 'Death.'"
—Kaldor Draigo, Supreme Grand Master of the Grey Knights

"Without the protection of Feroz's Ban, I fear the Homelands are lost."
—Daria



"I like it here. You always get a little more for your mana."
—Chandra Nalaar
"My summoning begins your debt, Planeswalker."
The dense jungle surrenders to a lush and lavish expanse. At its center uncoil the spires of Qarsi Palace.
"Beauty determines value, and we determine beauty."

A single misstep unleashes an avalanche of ruin.



"You've heard that a vampire can't enter a home without an invitation? A lie meant to help you sleep at night."
—Kerin, watch sergeant

The pirates of the Brazen Coalition are the descendants of those displaced by the Legion of Dusk, and they are eager for vengeance.





"Your first reaction may be to stand very still and hope she didn't see you. Trust me, she did."
—Endril, Kalonian naturalist
"The dead make good soldiers. They can't disobey orders, never surrender, and don't stop fighting when a random body part falls off."
—Nevinyrral, *Necromancer's Handbook*
In fire there is the spark of chaos and destruction, the seed of life. In ice there is perfect tranquility, perfect order, and the silence of death.



In the chaos brought by the new gods, swift-winged aven served as pathfinders, leading the last of the people away from the ruins of Naktamun.

He was born of the Mirari, thrust out of his homeland before he was even aware. Left without purpose or meaning, he found both in the pits.

"The specimen seems to be broken."



"Not my first edition of *The Advokist and the Urchin*!"

To taunt a man into action, call him a coward. To insult him beyond forgiveness, call him a jackal.
"If you live on a giant's back, there's only one individual you'll ever need to fear."
—Gaddock Teeg
"Thraben's pleas fall on deaf ears. Ours do not."
Darkness doesn't always send its minions to do its dirty work.

Its flight sets the sky itself on fire.
Nature grows solutions to her problems.
"Consider all confiscated items hostile until proven otherwise."
—Confiscation directive




Moss-covered statues littered the area, a macabre monument to the Basilisk's power.

The River Heralds fight to keep all others from reaching the golden city. The city has its own defenses.


There are many ruins, but there used to be many more.
One bone broken for every twig snapped underfoot.
—Llanowar penalty for trespassing

"This day will end in death, but not the one you hoped for. This day will end in victory, but not the one you expected."
The river split into many channels as it flowed to the Halimar Sea. Few travelers could follow the same one twice.
"Naga shed their scales. We wear ours with pride."
—Golran, dragonscale captain


The goblins made an unruly pile with military precision.

"I don't think he's bringing in the mail . . . ."
—Nundari, Sea Gate militia captain
It is ancient, immense, and irresistible.
2018 World Champion Javier Dominguez
"The greatest gift Dromoka gives is the ability to fly without wings."
—Urdnan, Dromoka warrior

"I bring a fire to recast all the world."


In with the old, out with the new.
"I sneezed, and it bolted."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight*

"So sorry, but, per our waiver, we're not responsible for 'things happening.'"

"Whoever survives the first blow lives to land the second."
Members of the Order often played the Hymn on instruments made from their victims' bones.







Olka collected the evening mist for years, studying its secrets. Once she learned its essence, she could vanish with a thought.
It started as a mere drop of water. The Magic Mirror crystallized it into much more.
Dragons of Silumgar's brood begin to digest their prey even before consuming it, letting their caustic breath do much of the work.
In the smoldering ashes of Shiv, a few dragons strive to rebuild their native land. The rest seek any opportunity to restore the broken pride of their race.



"One for you, one for me. What could be more fair?"
—Kethis, the Hidden Hand
"The land is not dead, merely sick. I will nurse it back to health."
Those who fled the destruction of the city stumbled into the territory of their prickly neighbors.




Jaya did not want to die, but of all the things to die for, Dominaria felt right.


A sphere pushes equally in all directions.



In space, no one can hear you repeatedly beg to get off the ride.
"Those who have never ridden before the wind do not know the true joy of war."

"We drive the dragons from our home. Why should we fear you?"
—Fire Eye, viashino bey
A foe without honour is a foe already beaten.
Once your life and all your worldly possessions have been surrendered to her, a gwyllion can be surprisingly civilized.






"The dauthi came from beneath the ruins one night, and the darkness cast them in the best possible light."
—Soltari Tales of Life


"Laws apply only to those who lack the vision to see past them."


"The vaulted ceiling of our faith rests upon such pillars."
—Darugand, banisher priest
The pale deer are believed to have lived a thousand years, the pure white five hundred more. Those who seek them would gladly wander the wilds forever for the merest glimpse of these sacred beings.

Reinforcements . . . or refreshments?
A mother's love transcends species.

It blindly marches on Thraben's gates, guided by its master's direful will.

When Athreos gathers the newly dead to be ferried across the Five Rivers That Ring the World, he sends skeletal griffins to fetch those who stray.
After many years as a lullmage, Noyan Dar turned his talents from allaying Zendikar's fury to the considerably easier task of rousing it.
"I swore to take one head for each member of my family they killed. My task is nowhere near its end."
"Aw, he's just a silly, dirty little man. What's to be afraid of?"

"I don't know where my destiny lies, but I know it isn't here."







The desert had once been a place of endless horror. It was now the last refuge as the city of Naktamun fell.





Dragonslayers learned to keep silent about their deeds after seeing the terrible vengeance wrought by Kolaghan and her brood.
Surviving an encounter with it is proof enough that an initiate is ready for the Trial of Strength.

The vines overgrew the construct, snapping gears and soaking up aether.

Students fled with their research as Tolaria fell to the Phyrexians.
As the green sun crowned, Phyrexian prophecies glowed on the Tree of Tales.

"Some believe Sandstalkers to be illusions; those with scars know better."
—*Zhalfirin Guide to the Desert*

The modular nature of the automaton's design makes assembly perfectly intuitive.
"In the name of Tempus, Lord of Battles, you will die honorably in righteous fire."
"When the time comes, let go. Nothing lasts forever."

"When I grafted the Planar Bridge into myself, I felt my Planeswalker spark flare beyond my body. The Multiverse was my plaything. It felt . . . incredible."
—Tezzeret
"Loss has no meaning here. You cannot take from those who have nothing."
The Conclave acts with a single will, expressed by countless warriors.

Cautious not to repeat Vig's mistakes, the Simic fuse life essences using magic alone. Each result is called a krasis.


"Although nowhere on Kamigawa was safe during the war, the Takenuma Swamp was the most horrifying. The rotting bamboo itself rebelled against its mortal inhabitants, pulling them into unmarked graves."
—*Observations of the Kami War*
"Relative of yours?" Ertai teased. Mirri simply sneered.


Like a carpet unrolling for their god, the scarabs poured out from the necropolis.

"Oh, for heaven's sake, of course it was a death threat! What did you think was in an envelope like that, a wedding invitation?"
—Magistrate's assistant
Starfish are its favorite prey.

"There is no shame in solitude. The lone knight may succeed where a hundred founder."
—Arna Kennerüd, skyknight


"The purpose of existence is simple: everything is fuel for the magmaw."
—Jaji, magmaw worshipper
"Sir, this may be the information booth, but I cannot answer ontological questions. It would be arrogant to assume I could describe the true nature of reality. Also there's a line."
Torching Krosa would be pointless. It grows faster than it burns.
"As the cavalry bore down, we faced them with swords drawn and pikes hidden in the grass at our feet. 'Don't lift your pikes 'til I give the word,' I said."
—Maeveen O'Donagh, *Memoirs of a Soldier*


Rakshasa trade in secrets, amassing wealth from their careful revelation.




When the Honden of Infinite Rage shattered, its attendants swarmed Kamigawa to sow mortal destruction.







"Ach! Hans, run! It's the lhurgoyf!"
—Saffi Eriksdotter, last words
The pits have their own form of mercy.
"Let's see . . . Mercadia, mercenary, merfolk . . . you know, I really need a better filing system."

It has the strength of seven men. In fact, it used to be seven men.

Cho-Arrim martial artists emulate the beasts of their home.
To be Arbiter is to dispense few words and many judgments.
A drop of ink is a nuisance. A torrent of inklings is a menace.




"Even my last breath will be a blow struck for Iroas."

"I will protect the less fortunate. I will love bravely. I will face despair and fight on. As a Capashen, I can do no less."
The bodies of its victims are the only tracks it leaves.

"Without a body, the soul is helpless to fight the terms of our contracts."
—Somhaur, Orzhov pontiff

The sylex's blast had razed the land, leaving behind old snow and sorrow. Urza stood alone in the sudden silence.
The less you have, the harder you fight for it.

"Do not mistake your lofty vantage point for safety."
—Shaper Tuvasa
"You don't survive in the wild by standing in plain sight."
—Garruk Wildspeaker
"It is not your place to rule, Radiant. It may not even be mine."
—Serra
Anger can empower those who embrace it.

No spot in nature is truly barren.
Seeing a chimera overhead foretells good fortune, but only because seeing one any closer foretells dismemberment.



"We thought the clouds had moved from the night sky. Then the night sky moved, and the horizon grew wings."
—Josuri
She preaches the blessings of the Machine Orthodoxy.
"Our glorious infection has taken hold."
—Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite
"I made that! It's mine! Did you see that?"
"Forward! Until the horizon is ours!"
—Khemses, charioteer
Known for their glowing horn and stone-rattling roar, zheng are the fiercest predators in the forest. Few survived before Jiang Yanggu came.
"Those who aren't welcome will know it!"
—Kolman, elder of Gatstaf
His armor is lightweight titanium alloy, but his will is iron.
Stories say demon blood runs in its veins, making it fearless and bloodthirsty.

"The land will not wait for the enemy to arrive."
—Nissa Revane
"This is the beginning of a beautiful friendship. And more importantly, a profitable one. Now sign here."
In the undercity, forgetfulness is often encouraged at the point of a blade.
They certainly are.
"Here did the Extinguisher steal the light from the world. Here will we sacrifice her to bring the Great Rekindling to our people."
—Illulia of Nighthearth



Pricy baubles are no match for cheap tricks.


"The colossal thing rumbled over the ridge, tree husks crumbling before it. The ones we were already fighting howled as it came, their muscles suddenly surging, and we knew it was time to flee."
—Llanach, Skyshroud ranger
The winged helms of the guard are put on for pageants—but taken off for war.

"I always charge a little extra to take on a pegasus. They fly like eagles, kick like mules, and hide like hermits."
—Tahli *en*-Dal, bounty hunter
"I will go to any length to achieve my goal. Eternal life is worth any sacrifice."
—Zur the Enchanter


"Halana and I have a bond that'll never be broken."



"To fill your mind with knowledge, we must start by emptying it."
—Barrin, master wizard
History has buried its treasures deep.
"It is the duty of the strong to oppose any who threaten the weak."
—The Southern Paladin



The whole of creation stood transfixed, silenced by the weight of anticipation.



It roams the skies over the Quicksilver Sea, alert for any hint of aberrant thought.




Kelpies are drawn to paradoxes, making them ideal companions for Quandrix mages.
"While most overworlders fortunately don't realize this, Gargoyles can be most delicious, providing you have the appropriate tools to carve them."
—The Underworld Cookbook, by Asmoranomardicadaistinaculdacar
"The cost of your opposition will be extracted from your wits."
—Nekusar, the Mindrazer
"Only in our vulnerability is there true power, and that power is life itself."
"Why squabble for trinkets when we could be living large off all this gold?"
—Admiral Beckett Brass

"I wouldn't stand in front of that wurm, son. 'Course, I wouldn't stand behind it neither. In fact, standing anywhere near that wurm's not much of a plan. Running, now *that's* a plan!"
—Wandering mage
In life, they were a motley crew: farmers, lords, cutpurses, priests. In death, they are united in singular, benevolent purpose.
A demon cannot be trusted, and a dragon will not be ruled.

Necrogen enflames certain emotional centers in the Morioks' brains: hate, aggression, and especially greed.

"I need no army. I have Jamuraa."
For four nights following Ennor's death and the reclaiming of his etherium, its recipients were found slain, the etherium ripped from their bodies.
Pirate captains rarely enjoy a peaceful retirement.
"I have seen much from the back of my dromad, most of it terribly wrong. The more I see, the more I am convinced of the rightness of my path."
—Heruj, Selesnya initiate

Not all storms come from the sky.
The earth walks, strongest of all.
To serve as an Eternal is the afterlife granted to the worthy.
Though the old holy wards and roadside shrines have begun to fail, faith in Avacyn still holds true power.
"There will come a time when the only prey left will be each other."
—Ulrich of Krallenhorde Pack
Wind is forceful, yet ephemeral. It can knock a dragon out of the sky, yet pass through the smallest crack unhindered.

"If you weren't born with it, you don't need it."
—Grahilah, former trader of Amiqat
A quill from the First Reader at Candlekeep, the spectacles of the Most Holy Servant of Gond, a woven bookmark from the Caleph Arcane of Calimport: readers always leave something of themselves behind.

Q: Where does a mechanical squirrel hide its nuts?
A: In a bolt hole.

"Mercy? Mercy is for the playground, not the battleground."

Once the hideous disease takes hold, it spreads through both bark and mind.


"Faeries talk all in riddles and tricky bits, 'cept the Nobles. Now, *there's* some straight talkers."
—Joskun, An-Havva Constable

"He cocooned himself alone in his workshop for months. When he finally emerged, all broad grins and excited chatter, I knew he'd found his answer."
—Barrin, master wizard




Lavabrink's boiling moat is a deterrent for most, and a relaxing bath for one.
"Now listen closely, my young gob. There are many ways to eat pimple bugs, but I say the best way is all smashed together between two slug chips."

In war-torn Alara, sometimes a wurm's gullet is the safest place to be.
Few who encounter the strange, human-like grove leave once the lilting chorus of the dryads reaches their ears.
They poured from the Skirk Ridge like lava, burning and devouring everything in their path.


"I had hoped to instill in it the loyalty of a guard dog, but with fire's power comes its unpredictability."
—Maggath, Sardian elementalist
"Justice isn't done until undeath is undone."
It stalks the fens by the light of the full moon, gathering shadows as it floats among them.




The Tolarian Academies embrace a tradition of study and research while discouraging the kinds of experiments that ruined the original island of Tolaria.
Artifact construction requires immense resources.


Falling from heaven is not as painful as surviving the impact.
The spires of Ravnica are no different from the tall trees of other planes. The elves navigate and protect them just the same.
"Hold your position! Leave doubt for the dying!"
—Tahngarth of the *Weatherlight*
"I swear this before all gods old and new: I will fight to my last breath."
"You know you've angered the gods when the clouds turn against you."
—Sisay, Captain of the *Weatherlight*

It's a helm that leaves the head at its most vulnerable.
"A flash of the lightning, a break of the wave, He passes from life to his rest in the grave."
—William Knox, "Mortality"


It still stares accusingly at Memnarch, though millennia have passed since he separated the eye from its body.
"We are the heart of the wild, the fire in its eyes, and the howl in its throat. Come, join the battle to which you were born."
—Kroshkar, Gruul shaman


At mealtimes, the Gruul customarily omit such niceties as using forks or killing the entrée.



"When you see a raven, head for the hills. It knows when the ghost-tide is headed in."
—Sved, fisherman of Nephalia

The frillbacks of Orazca soak up the sun on their tall spinal fins. They look slow and sleepy—until they catch the scent of prey.

"It's a testament to the forests' devastation that giant spiders now make their homes amid Dominaria's barren spires."
—Aznaph, greenseeker
At Sorin's appeal, Olivia Voldaren summoned the full might of her bloodline to gather at Lurenbraum Fortress.


Necromancers who discovered the new sources of mana were quick to dream up new nightmares with them.
Whatever follows life is incurable.
—Zhalfirin aphorism


"Fools dig for water, corpses, or gold. The earth's real treasure is far deeper."

Just one drop of the glistening oil can eventually stain even a soul as stalwart as a loxodon's beyond redemption.
"In the drowsy dark cave of the mind, dreams build their nest with fragments dropped from day's caravan."
—Rabindranath Tagore

Only in mirrors do heroes find their equal.

"The Kjeldorans keep the Orcs at bay and we train their healers. Most human bargains aren't as fair."
—Laina of the Elvish Council

"Now, little fighter, show me you deserved this second chance."


Those who bring nothing to the temple take nothing away.

"Secrets? What secrets?"






"Finally we understand the lesson of our home: loss begets renewal."
—Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order
"Our sanctuaries must be beacons of reason and calm or else they will fall."
One may as well chart the clouds as try to map Mercadia.
"Belief is the strongest mortar."


Buried under a thin layer of dirt, it was known for centuries as Mount Sardia.
"Eron would be much less of a hassle if only he were mortal."
—Reyhan, Samite Alchemist
"It is in our nature to recognize beauty, but to repeat it—ah, that is another feat altogether."
—Hannah of Verdura
Vendors hung cords heavy with roots and laid out boxes of salted meat, unaware of the fiery disaster swiftly approaching.


Once the brothers discovered the pristine island of Argoth, the war came down to who could plunder it faster.
"We've reached the xenos HQ. Transmitting coordinates now."
"You foolish knights pound your breastplates and vow to fight until your last breath. As if that's when it ends."
—Tormod, the Desecrator

As the assassins converged on Kitt Kanto, she struck a high note and held it, unbroken, for nearly a minute. When the room fell silent, she was surrounded only by rose petals falling gently to the floor.
"I don't know why people say a double-edged sword is bad. It's a sword. With two edges."
—Kamahl, pit fighter



"A man, and such a fool! I, a woman, will fight them for you."
—Lady Zhurong to her husband Meng Huo, before leading an army against the Shu
"Rejoice! Your vile blood will help fulfill our righteous cause."




Righteous anger hones a humble soul.
As Ravnica's wilds expanded, even advocates for nature had to confront fiercer natural threats.
It eats what it wants to eat—which is anything that moves.



There's something truly thrilling about moving so slowly.



"Our unity humbles our foes."

"Greet death with sword in hand."
". . . Cao's abdication changed the face of all; / No mighty battles marked the Southland's fall. . . ."


By the end of the festival, it was the only thing still grinning.

Death is a moth that dances toward our inner flame. The brightest fire can singe its wings.
—Nantuko teaching





"Whip the Xs! Pinch the Os! What we're building, no one knows!"

After stripping the sunken ships, it rises to the surface for another helping.
"He could handle any one of us, but he's no match for all of us!"






"That such delicate creatures could become so powerful in the embrace of winter is yet more proof that I am right."
—Heidar, Rimewind master

Dragonslayers learned to keep silent about their deeds after seeing the terrible vengeance wrought by Kolaghan and her brood.




Some wounds never heal.

After millennia asleep, the Eldrazi had forgotten about Zendikar's fiery temper and dislike of strangers.
"Approach from downwind. Tread with care. Aim for the heart."
Solitude and starvation are brutal punishments, but even worse is all that time to think.
"Believe in the ideal, not the idol."
—Serra

A friend of Jorn is never cold.







"I've already seen so much evil, so much darkness. Why do you insist on adding more?"
—Nissa Revane, to Dwynen
Which hurts more: a sword in the gut or a dagger in the back?





No evidence, no crime.

The mind is a beautiful bounty encased in an annoying bone container.


"From your death, new life. From your loss, our profit."
—Kirada, Qarsi overseer
". . . The world's affairs rush on, an endless stream; / A sky-told fate, infinite in reach, dooms all. . . ."
Those without breath can't complain.
"Your body is a delicate instrument that tells me truths. These devices help me 'tune' that instrument."

"If I die, it will not be alone."
"Perfection is at hand. You have been freed of weakness and made *compleat*."
—Sheoldred, Whispering One
"Such a small thing, a drop of water . . . And yet enough of them together can flood a field, cleanse a mire, or choke a forest."



Our hero struck with a flash of steel, slicing the monster's claw and freeing the young girl from its grasp!
Radiant's eyes flashed. "Go, then," the angel spat at Serra, "and leave this world to those who truly care."

When the battle is over, the bitterest foes at last find common ground.

It has more teeth than fit in its mouth.



Davvol encouraged the skirges; they made excellent sentries and were quite edible if properly seasoned.
It protects her from the ravages of Phyrexia and the savages of Rath.
Unlucky assassins find out why he's called "Brick Wall" Balzano.








The foulest of fowl.

Its roar is the clatter of a thousand bones.
"Peace must prevail, even if the wicked must die."



"I'd like to say that it's our pet, but the reverse may be closer to the truth."
—Ixor, initiate of Rhet crop
The Orzhov care not for repentance, only repayment.
New perspectives are often fleeting.
In life, it was a fetid, disease-ridden thing. In death, not much changed.

In times when freedom seems lost, great souls arise to reclaim it.
"It has been my honor to improve on Thran's original design. Perhaps history will remember me in some small part for my work."
—Urza, in his apprenticeship

All bow at its visitation—some in awe, some in honor, some in fear.

The best techniques outlive their creators.


Life is ephemeral. Phyrexia is eternal.

"We came into this world together. We fight for this world together. We'll leave this world together."
mise 'mīz v [alter. of might as well] (1997) 1: to win when you don't deserve to 2: to top-deck the "tings" you need 3: to be rewarded by an opponent's bad luck 4: to coin a phrase that spreads through the tournament scene like wildfire 5: to fling a monkey 6: to split firewood using a sharp instrument 7: To burn
"Let the knowledge of absolute law inspire you to live a life of absolute order."
When Captain Thorn adds a new ship to his fleet, he gives the crew a simple choice: follow me, or fall in the sea.
It housed a congregation of broken, screaming souls.
The tools of invention became the weapons of revolution.
An assassin is a king's most trusted courier, ensuring his messages are heard by even the most unwilling recipients.
Some timelines forever fray, branch, and intermingle. Others end abruptly.
"The more dangerous, the better."
"For those of courage, even the sky holds no limit."
—Arnjlot Olasson, sky mage


Flog was out of his league—this game wasn't up his alley, but the team couldn't spare him if he split.



"I don't *feel* any different."

"Chancellor Rayne canceled the annual beeble roast. I should have married a crueler woman."
—Barrin

"I am not at liberty to reveal my sources, but I can assure you, the price on your head is high."


For the Azorius, the law can be a physical shield against chaos and anarchy.
It's the only kind of shower goblins will tolerate.
The shadows know.
Some fishers like to eat eels, and some eels like to eat fishers.
One part cunning, one part wise, and many, many parts demented.




"You are safest in Candlekeep, Abdel, but I cannot keep you from the world forever."

"Why do bad things always come in threes?"
—Gisulf, expedition survivor


"The finest offering of night is not stealth but daring."
—Tetlok, Breathstealer
"Animals commune with their environment without the need for language. Theirs is a fundamental connection that surpasses flimsy words."
—Vivien Reid

"I don't think they'll appreciate my . . . adjustments."
—Karavin, renegade saboteur


"All that concerns me is the vampires' sense of smell and those freezing Nephalian nights."
When one of the Patriarch's champions displeased him, he would only shake his finger. That was enough.
"Fear holds no place in faith's battle plan."
"I will secure my revenge on Zendikar one soul at a time."
—Ob Nixilis
In troubled times, there are few greater sorrows than a wayward savior.
Even the greatest hero begins with nothing.

"Honor rides before us. All we have to do is catch up."
—Danitha Capashen
As the muscle cords of the creature twitched, Hanna saw an unsettling unanimity in the others' rippling flesh. She didn't know what it meant, but she urged Sisay to keep the ship at a safe distance.

Enter to find wealth, security, and eternal life . . . for just a small price up front.
A scavenger's favorite appetizer is death.


"Life begets life."
Wisdom is a well that never runs dry. It offers the most to those with the deepest thirst for knowledge.

Root systems in Mwonvuli twist through currents of mana rather than soil.
"Where'd all the birds go?"
—Kaldrin, jungle sightseer
The land knows no difference between the graves of commoners and nobles.
"You and your ship will make a fine addition to my fleet."
What wall can never be climbed, but is always scaled?
—Nakaya riddle





The problem wasn't that fish had learned how to fly. It was that sharks had adapted to follow them.
A howl on the wind hides many dangers.
"May this blade guide you on your great journey, as it did me on mine."



"We take only what we need to survive. Believe me, you will need this."
"A rift opened, and our arrows were abruptly stilled. To move was to push the world. But the sliver's claw still twitched, red wounds appeared in Thed's chest, and ribbons of blood hung in the air."
—Adom Capashen, Benalish hero
